Cape Town - Lwandle, a once quiet area, is now part of the top 30 police stations dealing with murders in the country. The small area on the outskirts of Cape Town has seen an 81% increase in murders and is now ranked 27 in the country. Lwandle used to report around 15 murders per quarter, but the recent statistics released by police minister Bheki Cele show that this has increased to 29 murders in the first three months of the year. The area only used to make headlines for service delivery protests and living conditions. But now the high rate of murders is also becoming a talking point. Local leaders including the station commander blame the lack of resources saying the area does not have a fully-fledged police force. Driving from the N2 into the area, you are greeted by a tiny police station. It was built in 1953 and houses just over 90 officers for a community of more than 60 000 residents. The area only had nine informal settlements in 2009, which have now  mushroomed to 19. Local councillor Xolani Diniso said the crime statistics did not come as a shock. “We have weekly meetings and there is always a murder case reported to us by the station commander. The station is under-resourced and it does not have enough manpower.” A murder that grabbed national headlines in Lwandle was the killing pf five-year-old Minentle Lekhatha in 2017 who was kidnapped by Xolani Lantu. He confessed to the murder and was sentenced to three life terms in prison. A year later the country was shocked when a lesbian woman, Noxolo Xakeka, was murdered for her sexuality. Bongile Joni later pleaded guilty in the Strand Magistrate’s Regional Court and was sentenced to eight years in prison. Station commander Colonel Xolani Williams said the area has grown vastly since 2009.  “You cannot police Lwandle now with the same manpower you were policing it with in 2009,” he said, pointing out that there have been no additional police sent to Lwandle in close to a decade but instead, officers have been transferred from there to other stations and not replaced. “Crime in Lwandle is caused by informal settlements,” said Williams. “Criminals have seen that police cannot go alone into informal settlements without the help of Metro Police and/or Law Enforcement. We cannot risk the little manpower we have.” Most of the murders committed in Lwandle are serious murders and like most townships in Cape Town, Lwandle has also seen a rise in extortion of businesses. The unruly taxi industry has also contributed to the rise of murders in the area due to internal conflicts. Two weeks ago, Somalian nationals were gunned down by suspected extortionists. Williams said a proper police station and more boots on the ground are what Lwandle needed.  “There were talks about building us a new police station but the last time I heard of progress was in 2018. The other issue is that the province is focusing on eight priority stations making us an overflow. Criminals come here to hide then hijack vehicles when going back to the areas like Khayelitsha.” Lwandle is also facing a high rate of absenteeism, most of the police officers come from the area and find it difficult to arrest the very same people they live with. “They (officers) are not immune to what is happening to other community members where you find that a person was killed in their home.” Marches by community members to the Western Cape and national government departments to demand a police station for Lwandle have been planned. Weekend Argus