Cape Town – Could we see another gold medalist from Kraaifontein?  Cousins Wayde van Niekerk and Cheslin Kolbe have done it before and now Alichia Arries will be hoping to do the same.  Arries will represent South Africa in the women’s sevens rugby at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham next month.  This will also be the first time she represents the country at a multi-sport event, which will see SA compete in more than 15 sporting codes. Arries said she is excited to make the Commonwealth Games team. “I’ve never thought in my wildest dreams that I will represent my country at the Commonwealth Games. The competition won’t be easy but I plan to enjoy myself, learn from my teammates and other teams and make the most out of it,” she said. The former Bernadino Heights High School pupil was part of the SA team who bagged gold at the African Women’s Sevens Tournament in Tunisia in April and represented the country at the recent HSBC World Rugby Women’s Sevens Series event in France.  She made her debut for South Africa last year after they claimed a 2-0 series win against Kenya in Stellenbosch. “Making my international debut brought tears of joy and to wear the green and gold jersey for the very first time was special. Rugby is a sport where I can express myself and to show those out there what I am capable of.  “My mother Sarah Langenhoven has played a major role ever since I represented the Western Province Girls Under-18 team. She could not believe that I would achieve such big goals at such a young age.  “In 2018, a coach spotted me while I was still in school. He told me that I should try out rugby because of my speed and believes I am very talented,” said Arries, who was a regular in the WP school’s athletics team. “Besides rugby, I love athletics. It was always part of my life while in school and was the first sport where I achieved something. “To all upcoming female rugby players, there will always be people who will try to hold you back but keep fighting, show them what you are made of and never give up on your goals,” she added. Langenhoven said: “I did not think my daughter would progress so far. She is a very calm person and  does her thing when it comes to sports. We as a family have a good relationship with her and are proud of her achievements.” Rodger Smith, who spotted her talents, said she is still very young in the game and already achieved so much.  “With all the exposure of provincial and international rugby, and the supporting systems, she definitely has the talent to become a household name in rugby. “As the coach who convinced her to take up rugby I am really super proud of her achievements so far, not just in rugby but also understanding the importance of education. “She has a very strong personality but is really on the shy side, well-mannered and hard-working,” he said. Weekend Argus