Velani Ludidi velani.ludidi@inl.co.za The City of Cape Town is embarking on an ambitious development plan for its second economic hub, Bellville CBD.  Although still a draft, the proposed local spatial development framework (LSDF) will include affordable housing, new broadband infrastructure, non-motorised streets and a revamped transport interchange. The 105-page draft is out for public comment until July 4 before it is revised to include comments and tabled to the council.  The municipality is hoping that the new development will drive economic growth, tourism opportunities, and opportunities to celebrate the diverse heritage of the area. The municipality said Bellville has a large urban core with various smaller centres and employment areas.  Much of the deprivation is concentrated south of Voortrekker Road with Bellville South, Belhar, and Ravensmead suffering from blight and deprivation. “The City’s Catalytic Land Development Programme focuses on Bellville’s urban core as a catalytic precinct to promote inclusive growth and development through the digital economy, knowledge-based businesses, and so forth,” said deputy mayor and MMC for spatial planning and environment Eddie Andrews. “However, the immediate focus is on interventions to stabilise the area in terms of crime and grime and deprivation. I encourage all who have an interest in the future of Bellville to please peruse the draft LSDF once it is available, and to comment on what the City is proposing for this area.” The Bellville CBD holds a strategic position in the metropolitan area.  Voortrekker Road is one of the few continuous east-west connectors while Robert Sobukwe Road, via Symphony Way, has the potential to develop into an equally important north-south connector. Images of the proposed plan show a whole new city that is bright and breathtaking. The following opportunities arise from the draft: ·       To improve movement and mobility between the metro-south east and the northern districts as an important employment area, particularly within the Voortrekker Road Corridor. ·       To apply the principles of transit-oriented development to create urban spaces with a mix of high density residentially-led development, commercial, retail, and recreational spaces. ·       To create a safe and convenient precinct that facilitates and encourages walking and other forms of non-motorised transport, together with a master basement to accommodate parking in the CBD underground. ·       Improved public transport services and facilities. ·       Implementation of a new vertically integrated multi-modal Bellville Public Transport Interchange as a catalytic project, phased over time to unlock urban renewal. ·       Implementation of quality social amenities. ·       The release of vacant City-owned land for mixed-use development, including the establishment of a ‘government precinct’, accommodating a mix of public uses, facilities and services. Sean Dayton, from Young Urbanists, a community organisation aimed at students and early career professionals who have an interest in their city and want to be more engaged stakeholders in its future, said the draft looks promising and encouraged the public to participate. “So far I have had the pleasure of reading through the Bellville framework and personally, it’s the best SDF I’ve ever read.  “As a non-planner it’s easy to read and understand, it speaks the right language eg promoting non-motorised transport in the right areas but most importantly also includes a very well-thought-out implementation plan as to how to achieve the objectives set out in the plan.” Also in support of the plan is the Greater Tygerberg Partnership (GTP).  GTP CEO Warren Hewitt encouraged interested parties to comment on the plan.  “We believe that the people who live, work and play in Bellville know and understand best the need and potential for the future growth of Bellville. “At the moment, if you lived in Bellville in the last decade, it is difficult to recognise the area. Getting out of the bus station, a stench of urine greets you. “Before you notice much, a taxi guard shouts: ‘Parow to Cape Town’. Commuters rush to crossover Charl Malan Street. This way leads to the buzzing Voortreker Road.” The plan will affect the way the minibus taxi industry operates, but to the Weekend Argus’s surprise the taxi bosses were not aware about the plan.  “As Santaco we are not aware of the plans, and there has not been any consultation with Santaco, we hope that the City will involve the industry, so that we are able to give input in the design so that the needs of the industry are taken into account,” said Santaco chairperson Mandla Hermanus.  The industry is an important stakeholder and the plan can delay if they do not agree with some of the proposal. It was the same with the informal traders and other business around the taxi rank, not many new about the draft.  GTP said all interested parties will be invited to meetings in the coming weeks and that there has been notices in local media.  Like every other CBD, in Bellville there are homeless people roaming the streets.  Pick-pocketing, drug trade and other petty crimes are common here in the current set-up. They all happen in the full view of the public and sometimes law enforcement authorities. A walk towards Tienie Meyer Bypass takes you to a whole shopping experience.  This is where counterfeits products from clothing, and textile to tobacco. The clothes are cheap, buying here is like scoring a bargain. Police raids do happen sometimes, and counterfeits are confiscated but this seems to not deter the people selling these. The SA Revenue Service (Sars) said they lose millions of rands as counterfeits are not taxed.  “In simple terms, if it’s a real bargain it may be illegally smuggled into this country. Beware of unrealistic bargains.  “If it’s too good to be true it usually is,” said Sars. “Undervalued imports of clothing and textiles continue to damage the South African economy.” Taxi Justice founder Yusuf Abramjee said the issue of counterfeits is widespread and a growing problem.  “These counterfeit goods are being sold openly and brazenly in areas across many many parts of the country.  “The Bellville area is another hot spot.”