Teachers in rural areas have been dealt a financial blow after being informed that their financial incentive has stopped. The aim of the incentive as explained by the Department of Basic Education, was to Improve the conditions of service for teachers. Teachers working in the rural areas said the R2 900 incentive was mainly used to get to schools located far away. “Teacher Incentives was to contribute towards ensuring that the public education system recruits and retains the right quality and quantity of educators for all schools to address the scarcity of suitably qualified educators in the areas as identified in the policy,” said Elijah Mhlanga, spokesperson for the Department of Basic Education. However, teachers, unions, and education activists said taking this away meant that the quality of education would be affected. A principal, who spoke to Weekend Argus on condition of anonymity, said he felt the department was being unfair. “Somewhere someone has to stand up for our rights. Things shouldn’t be passed without consultation, we weren't even consulted, its not right. The last time we got a raise was in 2019, now you still go and take this away?” A teacher, who also spoke on basis of anonymity, said discontinuing the allowance would discourage teachers from applying for work in rural areas. “Taking this incentive away means that a lot of us will go into debt, I  used the money to put in petrol, at times in a lift club. I can tell you that teachers prefer to work in urban areas where they can grow. “This will mean that fewer teachers will want to apply or even opt to work at farm schools,” the teacher said. Mhlanga said that although the policy had good intentions, it had challenges, including funding, implementation by the provincial education department, inadequate communication between the province, districts and schools, identification of posts to be incentivised, the distance between schools identified as rural and those that were not, as well as monitoring the implementation of the incentive. The withdrawal of the policy was gazetted, he said. Education and Allied Workers Union (Eusa) chairperson Andre de Bruyn said the union was disgusted by the decision to withdraw the rural allowance. “This means that the teachers have not seen an increase in their salary and now the incentive to attract people to these rural schools have been taken away as well,” he said. De Bruyn said with the increase in the cost of living, including medical aid and petrol, teachers would definitely feel the brunt of the decision. “The rural allowance is taken away without consultation. Does the DBE want poor teachers to struggle to make ends meet? “Does this department want rural schools to seek teachers to fill posts and give quality education to learners in every rural community? “Eusa feels that the DBE is not only dictatorial, but also does not have the best interests of their teachers at heart,” he said. Education activist, Hendrik Makaneta, agreed with De Bruyn and called for Minister Angie Motshekga to retract her decision. “This is a cause for grave concern because it will lead to teachers flocking from rural schools to urban schools. Teachers generally don't enjoy working in far schools, so taking away this incentive is already problematic. “The minister should return back to the original agreement, and give the teachers this incentive so that they can remain motivated,” Makaneta said.