Cape Town - Thirteen years after the murder of a decorated police officer and neighbourhood watch member, the case has been closed after no leads were found. In August 2009, Sergeant Luigi Manasse, stationed at Delft Police Station, and Delft Neighbourhood Watch volunteer, Franklin Samuels, were driving in a police vehicle along the corners of Lansdowne Road and Symphony Way when they were ambushed by gunmen while standing at a red traffic light. Images of the crime scene hit newspaper pages, with Samuels inside the vehicle and Manasse laying halfway out of it. Top police officials visited the crime scene, and the then-MEC for Community Safety, advocate Lennit Max vowed that their killers would be arrested. In a statement at the time of the murders, Max’s office said: “The Minister said that the police will do everything in their power to find and arrest the suspects. He described the culprits as sick murderers who, through their callous deeds, have shown that they have absolutely no respect for human lives. “He urged members of the community to come forward if they have any information regarding the shooting incident. Minister Max believes that someone out there will have some information on the killers.” But police have confirmed the case was handed over to provincial detectives and that there were no arrests. Police spokesperson, Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi, explained: “This office confirm that the investigation into the matter you are referring to was conducted by the Provincial detectives. The unknown suspects in the matter, who fled the scene on the day of the incident, were never arrested. The case in question has been closed undetected. MEC for Community Safety and Police Oversight Reagen Allen said his office was informed that the case had been closed due to no success in finding the suspects or leads. “It is deeply unfortunate that the suspects who are unknown to SAPS have not been apprehended. Whenever a criminal evades arrest, I can understand the frustration and anger, as all criminals should ultimately pay for their crimes. We know that losing a loved one is never easy, and the pain never subsides. “We trust that the families will find closure and are consoled knowing that their loved ones were brave crime fighters. “We also have to place it on record that the neighbourhood watch accreditation programme only commenced in 2016. As such, we do not have records of active members of NHWs within the various areas prior to 2016.” Manasse was described as a dedicated police officer and a loving father, and his wife, Janine Manasse, was pregnant at the time of the murder. Janine declined to comment but confirmed the case was a cold case and that she had her family to consider. Samuels' family could not be reached. Samuels was a volunteer in the neighbourhood watch in Delft and had plans to pursue a permanent position with the police. “Anyone with information of what transpired on that dreadful day is urged to call Philippi East police on  021 370 1900 or alternatively, call Crime Stop on 0860 010 111.” Weekend Argus