A cleaner working at the Mitchells Plain police station, allegedly pretended to be a SAPS employee  and promised unsuspecting women jobs before allegedly sexually assaulting them. He is currently under investigation but irate community activists   The cleaner who’s name is known to Weekend Argus, recently came under the radar of GBV activist Joanie Fredericks after one of three victims approached her with details about how she was assaulted.  Fredericks said the cleaner, an elderly man, would skulk around the police station for t female victims who he would the offer a job. “He would then lure them to a room opposite the station and do his sick deed there. His modus operandi was always the same.” Fredericks said since she learnt of the incident, she posted an online petition,  calling for the suspension of the employee. “We don’t want to hear anything else, just that he no longer works there, because that is a place where women are supposed to be protected and safe, this is the place where they open cases of sexual assault, it shouldn’t be a place where they become victims.” Fredericks said three  more women also came forward stating that they were  approached by the man. “Its sick that this man already appeared in court and was released on bail…so what's so difficult with just giving the community peace of mind that his not at the station anymore? The petition has been handed over the the police station. “We have handed over a petition to Captain Williams at the station and will wait for seven days for definite answers. Otherwise we will take our own steps to make sure this guy doesnt work there anymore.” Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi, a police spokesperson, said that the Mitchells Plain Family Violence, Child Abuse and Sexual Offences Unit are investigating a case of sexual assault against the perpetrator. “The matter is currently in court and we advise that you send your enquiry to the spokesperson of the National Prosecuting Authority for a response of what transpired in court. A police statement said on Wednesday five disgruntled community members arrived at Mitchells Plain Police Station where they delivered a memorandum to the management of the local SAPS office. “Kindly be advised that it is our policy to conduct a departmental investigation following any misconduct or criminal investigation against a member of SAPS, however, this is an internal process between the employer and the employee and dealt with as such.” The man will appear on June 24 in the Mitchells Plain magistrates court.