POLICE are investigating cases of attempted murder after two Passenger Railway Agency of South Africa (Prasa) contractors were shot while repairing cables on Cape Town’s beleaguered Central Line.  On Tuesday morning police responded to the scene at the railway lines near Kalksteenfontein where the two workers had been shot and wounded by unknown persons.  According to police suspects arrived at the scene in a VW Polo and opened fire on the two. Prasa spokesperson, Nana Zenani said: “The preliminary report suggests that our contractors were shot and injured during the course of their work.” “The incident took place along the Central line while contractors were busy as part of the corridor recovery. The shooters were intent on stealing the copper cables before they were were even relayed as part of the repair works.” Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said the shooting occurred at the railway tracks near Kalksteenfontein. “A 44-year-old male was shot  in both legs and another male aged 36-year-old (security guard) was shot in his left arm and (sustained) slightly bruised wound at the back of his head. Both victims were taken to a nearby medical facility for medical treatment,” he said. “According to reports a black Polo dropped two unknown males in Kalksteenfontein and the males approached the workers and started shooting at them. The motive surrounding the incident is unknown at this stage.” Van Wyk said cases of attempted murder were opened for investigation. “The suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested,” he concluded. A large part of the Central line has not been operational and due to infrastructure damage and the shacks built along parts of the rail lines near Langa. Government has until July to find alternative accommodation for occupiers before the Western Cape High Court eviction order can come into effect.  Anyone with more information on Tuesday’s shooting can contact the Bishop Lavis Detective unit on 021 935 9820 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111.