South Africa’s youngest mayor is determined to forge his own way through a difficult political arena. It’s not every day that young people are given the opportunity to assume responsible leadership positions in South Africa, and certainly not influential political positions. But Chad Louw was elected mayor of Oudtshoorn at the age of 24 during last year’s local government elections.  Louw is the country’s youngest mayor and represents the ANC, which traditionally favours older leaders even within its own ranks. Before him the country’s youngest mayor was the DA’s Bongani Michael Baloyi who led the Midvaal Municipality at the age of 26 back in 2013.  Louw, now 25, is well aware of the challenges of the financially distressed town and the impact of its dry climate. But the past five years in the ANC has prepared him for the responsibilities that comes with the task.  Since joining the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in 2017, he worked as a branch convenor for his constituency. Louw said his involvement in politics was rooted in making a positive impact in his community.  “I want to add value to the lives of others, especially in previously disadvantaged areas,” he said, adding that his main mission was to disrupt the status quo set by predecessors.  The ambitious young man who hails from Dysselsdorp, a small town 30km east of Oudtshoorn, initially pursued a career in film and television.  “I studied a BA degree in film and television at City Varsity but couldn’t finish due to financial constraints,” he said.  “I later had the opportunity to graduate through Ikasi Media with a course in film and television.” He completed an array of courses through the Young African Leaders Initiative, which prepared him for his role as mayor. “I completed courses about the public sector and the understanding of human rights,” he said.  “I also completed a course through Oliver Tambo School of Leadership which focused on the history of the country, governance and economic development.” Louw, who is doing his first year of his BA Law degree at Stadio (a private tertiary institution), used the skills obtained through his courses to deal with what he describes as the “arduous part” of his short tenure.  He is in an ongoing battle with the acting municipal manager of Oudtshoorn Walter Hendricks, who was recently reinstated after a court in George ruled that Hendricks’ previous dismissal was unlawful. Hendricks was dismissed after councillors tabled an urgent motion on April 22 to remove him from his post. He faces charges for tender fraud and corruption stemming from when he was employed by the George Municipality. Louw has tried to pursue the legal avenues at his disposal to get rid of Hendricks.  “We’re still busy with this process,” he said.  “We’re having yet another council meeting on Monday (tomorrow) to discuss this.” Louw described his experience  as mayor, as “tough with a lot of highs and a lot of lows”, adding that he is “slowly but surely winning”.  “There’s a lot of work that still needs to be done, but we’ve achieved a lot over the last six months.  It’s a new environment, I’m making room for improvement and to learn how the office works and what is expected of me.” Since his election in November, Louw said he has had a few experiences where people have undermined his authority because of his age. “I’ve put measures in place to take a firm stand whenever that happens,” he said. “However, it doesn’t come from those who do their work and those who work so that the municipality can prosper,” he added. “I believe in every leadership position there are challenges, but I’m pulling through and keeping my head above water.” In future, Louw said he wants to become a Member of the Provincial Legislature and then work towards national, should he be afforded the opportunity. “There might be a chance to serve another term but we’ll cross that bridge when we get there.  “I’m open for opportunities and if it’s something that sets a platform to do more, I will take it,” he said. He added: “I hope things work out for the better after my term, but I’m working hard and I am committed to ensuring that I excel politically and in life.”  Weekend Argus