Cape Town - One hundred pupils who have already earned their learners’ licences need your help to obtain their driving licences. A fund-raiser featuring Cape Town musician Emo Adams and Sean D has been planned, called the Learner’s Project Fund-raiser. The event is expected to take place on July 16 at Spine Road High School. In May, pupils from Oval North High School and Lentegeur High School in Lentegeur, Mitchells, Plain passed their learner’s licence tests and were featured in the Weekend Argus. This initiative will now be part of all the high schools in Mitchells Plain. It forms part of a learner’s licence project which is spearheaded by ward councillor Avron Plaatjies and Western Cape MPL Ricardo Mackenzie. “Matriculants in Mitchells Plain, Cape Town, have been given an opportunity to obtain their learner’s licences for free in a pilot project launched at the beginning of the year. The project, founded by ward councillor Avron Plaatjies and Western Cape MPL Ricardo Mackenzie, seeks to steer youth away from a life of crime and make them more employable once they finish school,” said Plaatjies. Plaatjies said driving-school owner Basil van der Merwe was part of the initiative, but that funding was needed to finance the driving lessons for each pupil. “About 100 pupils from the Lentegeur and Oval North High School wrote and successfully passed their tests to obtain learner's licences at the end of phase 1. “The learners were given free lessons over the past few months from the Basil van der Merwe driving school in the area. “Due to the positive response and interest from the community, high schools and learners from the greater Mitchells Plain area, we have embarked on phase 2 as the aim of this project is to give all matriculants in Mitchells Plain permanent ‘employability’ once they have their licences,” Plaatjies said. Plaatjies said pupils would be leaving school at the end of the year with a tool and skill for life which increased their possibilities. He added that many pupils came from low-income households and were unable to pay for their lessons. This was why they had approached local artists to help raise funds. “Learners will therefore not only complete their matric this year, but will also leave school with a skill for life,” he added. “We are now starting with the driving lessons as part of phase 2 of the project. Seeing these students in the cars warms my heart. “As you may know, obtaining one’s learner’s licence and driver’s licence is quite expensive, and most of our youth in our communities come from poverty-stricken homes, which does not allow for such an expense. “We have therefore decided to take the learner’s licence project to all high schools in Mitchells Plain,” he said. “We have embarked on a phase 2 fundraising campaign whereby we are excited to announce our partnership with the sensational Emo Adams -- a true South African legend. “All proceeds of the concert will go towards getting our matriculants their learners licences and, ultimately, their driving licences. We appeal to all residents, community leaders and schools to support this event.” Mackenzie added the licence provided them with a skill for a lifetime and would provide many opportunities. “The aim of this project is to give these learners permanent employability once they have their licences,” said Mackenzie. “Learners will therefore not only complete their matric, but also leave school with a skill for life. “Given the fact that many learners come from gang neighbourhoods, this project represents an invaluable opportunity for many to expand their horizons. The pilot project, which will hopefully be extended, will give these 100 matriculants a hand-up to succeed, and pave the way to a better life,” he said. “It is also a great achievement, and a vital moment in preparing a student for their work life. It teaches these young adults values of commitment, dedication and reliability. “This process requires them to be on time, bring their A-Game and a willingness to do extra work beyond their normal matric classes.” One of the students was extremely excited and said it was a great opportunity to become employed if they can’t go to University. Ticket holders will form part of a lucky draw for a 50-inch television, which was sponsored by Lewis stores in the Town Centre, Mitchells Plain. Tickets can be bought via WebTickets or cash at R120 each. Plaatjies can also be contacted on 084 669 0570. Weekend Argus