Cape Town - In the interest of changing the narrative, Heal the Hood Project collaborated with three students from Montagu’s Gift Primary School in Parkwood to craft a song that advocates for change. As the organisation seeks to promote, enhance, and empower disadvantaged communities in South Africa via the incorporation of hip hop culture, youth development, and community activism, the Grade 5 lyricists are showcasing their talent by spitting rhymes that call for a shift in the mentality of youngsters and a better environment for them to grow up in. Shaquile Southgate from Heal the Hood Project said that the idea came about when Montagu's Gift Primary approached them to host the programmes after seeing their successes in previous years at neighbouring schools. “Heal the Hood Project has been hosting these initiatives since 2016 and has always focused on areas where youth do not have ready access to these forms of free training in visual and performing arts. Youth has always been the focus of the development we want to see take place in our communities and are the future activists for change in our society. Who better to voice this message than youth from that community. “The programme kicks off with youth being exposed to the various subjects being offered by Heal the Hood Project, being urban art, hip hop dance, rap/beat making, DJ/podcasting, and golf. Central themes in our lesson plans incorporate a strong sense of self-worth and love, which is needed to boost their individual confidence and community spirit by caring for themselves first before assisting their peers. The music process, on the other hand, goes hand in hand with the choreography. “For this particular song, the lyrics were written and composed by Charlton Eftha, our music facilitator,  who worked on teaching the pupils on the styles of delivery, cadence, flow, punchlines, and stage presence. The song aimed to bring a positive change in the community of Parkwood to counter negative social ills and to change the mindsets of youths,” said Southgate. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Millicent Merton said the school indicated they were proud of the pupils for speaking out for positive change. “The pupils shared their daily experiences. They expressed their innermost feelings through this art form. We want the community to take heed of our children’s call for positive change in the community. “The music video and the work done by Heal the Hood Project exposed pupils’ hidden talents and potential, and the pupils discovered new interests. We are grateful to Heal the Hood Project for the excellent work that they are doing at Montagu’s Gift Primary School and for instilling positive values within our learners. “This is also in line with the Western Cape Education Department’s Transform to Perform Strategy, which includes a Values programme that is currently being implemented in schools. These values include respect for one another, kindness, caring, etc. Schools are to have ongoing discussions with learners and educators on values and to undertake various initiatives that showcase them. Many of our principals have reported a decline in pupil bullying, for example, as a result of this programme, as they are being taught how to respect and consider one another and their feelings,” said Merton. While Southgate cannot comment on the Parkwood mob attack incident, he did add that he felt that communities needed to foster a tolerant spirit that does not seek violence as the first option. “The trauma a lot of our children face is astronomical and needs urgent addressing in this abnormal society. “The community needs to sit down and have open conversations with the youth and bring about positive transformational change within their capabilities. Whilst they may not be able to change national policies and socio-economic issues they can start advocating for resources and stand up against injustices and service delivery issues. Community gardens and joint collective efforts can go a long way towards combating food shortages,” said Southgate. Weekend Argus