The founder of the Pink Ladies Missing Children’s Organisation, Dessie (Desiree) Rechner, has died. Rechner, fondly called Nana, became a household name in the Western Cape and country after she founded the organisation in 2007 following the disappearance and murder of seven-year-old Sheldean Human of Pretoria. The little girl had been wearing a pink top and denim skirt and it was for that reason that the organisation was started for children and the colour pink used. Rechner became the director and spearheaded hundreds of searches for children and missing adults . She also ran an Identity card programme for children where their photograph and fingerprint would be accessible for police. Today, messages of condolences  were posted  on social media and on the Pink Ladies website on Rechner’s death. Jacqui Thomas, co-director and cofounder of the Pink Ladies, said on their Facebook Page: “Dear Task Team, Pink Ladies Members, Volunteers, Members of the Public and SAPS, Our Beloved Mom and Granny Des (Nana) passed away peacefully this morning after a short illness. “Des was not only a stalwart in our fight for missing and exploited children, but also a business partner, confidant, best friend, mother and grandmother. Our heartfelt condolences to her daughter, grandchildren and all who were touched by her. “On a personal note, over the past 16 years Des and I never went more than a day without a call, message or email. Her constant presence will be sorely missed, but her legacy will remain. Our business operations will continue as usual, which is what she wanted.” Henry Arends of the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum and uncle of the Stacha Arendse, 11, who was raped and murdered in Mitchells Plain in March 2017 by her neighbour, Randy Tango, who is serving life imprisonment behind bars, said Rechner had left a legacy. “It is a sad day in South Africa, there is one person less now fighting for us,” he said. “She was one of the first activists who started looking for missing children and if only people had to start listening to her when she said there would be an increase and that there should be more funding for missing persons, but they didn't take her seriously. “She was compassionate and dedicated to what she did. She got the work done, she was an advocate for women and children.” Chaz Thomas of the missing persons organisation Track n Trace said they were saddened by her death: “We have lost a huge icon in finding missing persons, we extend our condolences to her family and friends.” Bianca Van Aswegen, the national co-ordinator of Missing Children South Africa also remembered Rechner: “Our sincere condolences as Missing Children South Africa goes out to the family and team of Pink Ladies on the passing of Dessie Rechner.  “Dessie had a passion for her work and always advocated for child safety. She will be sorely missed, and her legacy will never be forgotten what she did for South Africa’s children.” Weekend Argus