The case of murder accused Daniel Smit, has been postponed for almost a month to allow for the Klawer train driver to be mentally evaluated at the Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital. Smit stands accused of the murder of 13 year old Jerobejin van Wyk, from Klawer.  The 56-year-old, briefly appeared in the Klawer magistrates court on Tuesday  on five charges relating to the February murder of the teen. The charges include, murder, the attempted murder of Van Wyk’s friend, kidnapping, and defeating the ends of justice and failure to report an incident to the police. Smit was was previously referred to Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital for observation following a report from psychologist CWA van Zyl. The state did not oppose the referral. Eric Ntabazalila, a spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority, said they were advised that the Smit was number 93 on Valkenberg’s waiting list. In the said report, several points highlighted reasons why the psychologist felt the need for Smit to be investigated by a psychiatrist. The psychological report revealed Smit allegedly “lost control” before bumping, breaking the teens neck and later allegedly dismembering his body. According to the report Smit saw the two boys taking fruit. Jerobejin then allegedly mocked Smit after which he lost control. Smit then chased after the two boys in his bakkie. He apparently bumped Jerobejin and pulled the teen into his vehicle. The report said when Smit got home, he gave Jerobejin something to eat. He then allegedly broke the boys neck and hid the corpse in a standing freezer. The report also makes mention of Smit’s 20 year old daughter who was present at the time but did not see anything. The report said Smit gave his daughter sleeping pills. It alleged that Smit then took the corpse out of the freezer, dismembered it and burn it. He got rid of the parts that did not burn in the septic tank of the sewage system. The report also explains how Smit got involved in a cult which gave him the power of control and justification for his actions. The report further reads: “He has done comprehensive literature study in the field of all religious, traditional rituals and Satanism. “He seems to be caught up in ambivalence and mentions his contract with the occult Satan and God.” The assessment also found that Smit’s whole life is characterised with physical altercations with various people. The case was to 19 July 2022 for a space at the hospital and for further investigation.