Cape Town - Medical experts agree that asthma is the most common non-communicable disease in children and adolescents. As World Allergy Week was observed this week, this year’s campaign is focused on the connection between asthma and allergic airway diseases. Paediatric allergologist at Netcare Christiaan Barnard Memorial Hospital, Dr Sarah Karabus, said the mortality rate from asthma in South Africa is one of the highest in the world because it is under-diagnosed and untreated. “Allergies and asthma often co-exist (but not always). The same allergies that trigger allergic rhinitis or hay fever symptoms, can also trigger asthma attacks. Because the upper airway and lower airways are connected, if you have irritation of one area due to an allergen, then the other may also be affected. This is called ‘united airway theory’,” she said. “Taking asthma medication on time is vitally important because it takes effect over a period of time, and not immediately, to reduce the inflammation in the airway that causes asthma. Taking daily controller medication works to improve overall control of asthma, improves the quality of life, reduces daily symptoms and reduces the risk of having a serious asthma attack.  “It is a myth that asthma controller medication can become addictive or that it becomes less effective if used over a long period. It certainly does not ‘weaken the lungs’ as some believe,” she said. Paediatric pulmonologist at Netcare Alberton Hospital, Professor André van Niekerk, said asthma is very common among children. “Asthma is a potentially dangerous disease and leads to frequent unscheduled ER visits. Children often need hospital admission for acute exacerbations and it is not unusual to find ICU admission. “South Africa still reports one of the highest asthma-related death rates in the world. This happens despite the availability of good controller medication. “Factors like caesarean section birth, failure to breastfeed, repeated antibiotic use in early life, wrong weaning onto solid food practices, cigarette smoke exposure and repeated viral airway infections (crèche attendance) are associated with more frequent asthma,” he said. Director of the Medical Research Council Unit on Child and Adolescent Health, Professor Heather Zar, said asthma is increasing in urban and rural areas, especially in low-middle income country settings. “We have done surveys of asthma prevalence in 13-14 years old in Cape Town (as part of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood) over two decades showing an increased prevalence and an increase in severity.  Also there’s considerable under diagnosis. This increase is  probably driven by environment exposures. “Asthma is the most common non-communicable disease in children, occurs in around 20% of SA adolescents but it shouldn’t be life threatening if the correct treatment is given, as it can be very well controlled,” she said. Chief executive of the Allergy Foundation of South Africa, Professor Michael Levint, said if asthma is left untreated it can be life-threatening. “Allergic airway diseases of the respiratory system are the most common chronic diseases in humans. Asthma affects over 350 million people worldwide, and allergic rhinitis affects between 10% and 50% of the population depending on geographic location. “The connection between asthma and allergic airway diseases is important. It is known that asthma and allergies in the upper airways frequently co-exist. This can aggravate breathing difficulty, wheezing, cough, and other respiratory problems. Treating asthma and upper airway allergies together, helps improve both problems,” he said. Weekend Argus