A Young ActionSA member is hoping to make political history by becoming South Africa’s youngest president.  Ashley Sam, 22, who hails from a small town named Wittedrift, is ActionSA’s regional organiser for the Garden Route district. Currently the Garden Route is one of the party’s strong holds in the Western Cape. “No one is too young to make a difference,” Sam told Weekend Argus, adding that it is “my motto.” “We, the youth, are making a change by bringing fresh ideas to the table. We are the answer to all the issues we’re currently facing.” Asked what issues he’s referring to, he said: “We, in this country, really need engineers, we need people who are critical thinkers and problem solvers to take care of food security, that’s our biggest issue along with the high unemployment rate.” Sam, who went to Wittedrift High School, was raised by his single mother and recently took over her property construction business. His mother, Gladys, started the business 10 years ago and it is named after her.  The business is multifaceted in home renovations, the supply of cleaning materials and vehicle tyres.  “My mom plays a critical role in my life,” he said. “I am who I am because of her.” His mom stepped aside to give him the opportunity to take over the reigns.  “The reason that she stepped aside is attributed to the fact that she felt she had done her part by getting the business up and running and now it’s time for me to take over, she is so tired,” he said.  Sam said he has a bold and ambitious goal for the future and that is to become president in 2029.  “I am the writer of my future - I stand firm in my belief and I align it with the party cause’ there’s one thing I learned from ActionSA and that is that you’re not here working for the people of the party but to exploit your position within the party to create a sustainable future for all,” he said.  “ActionSA have people in leadership positions that come from various walks of life, like myself, cause’ before this job I was not actually a politician,” he said.  Sam said one of the reasons he joined the party is because of its inclusivity.  “It’s a home for everybody, it doesn’t matter what your age is - you can be old or young - and we have a portfolio for the LGBTQI+ community, so this is literally a home for everybody.” Sam said he adored the LGBTQI+ community.  “I love them dearly, even tho’ I’m not a member,” he said.