Cape Town - To help catapult Decorex Africa into its brightly reimagined future, a new architectural curator has been appointed to aid in steering the Cape Town and Johannesburg shows in the jaw-dropping, industry-changing direction the organisers, RX Africa, have envisaged. Respected local architect Theo Bothma is on board to set the tone and vet exhibitors to ensure the best of the best, best in class and best practice. He joins fellow Decorex Africa curator, the trailblazing creative director, Bielle Bellingham, who is also newly appointed to helm the show’s content. An active architect and interior designer, Bothma established Theo Bothma Architects and Design (TBAD) in 2017 and continues there as both founder and the firm’s director, bringing more than 10 years of industry experience to his role. He has captured the idea of luxury design on both a national and international scale. His experience has helped create a design service that emphasises client consideration as each design is personalised and unique. He believes that design should be bespoke and allow people to experience personalised luxury. TBAD is based in Johannesburg and has worked on several commissions, including substantial private homes in South Africa and Africa, including Zimbabwe, Zambia and Nigeria. Two of Theo’s favourite personal projects include Villa Meyersdal and Villa Morningside. For Villa Meyersdal, the design of this contemporary family home in Johannesburg takes advantage of the temperate climate to allow a seamless flow between spacious living spaces and beautiful landscaping on the exterior. With framed views of the Johannesburg skyline and abundant natural light, this home encourages a sense of welcome relaxation for the family. In Villa Morningside, interior design meets art. This project was a combination of interior design, lifestyle creation and art. TBAD complemented the bold and bright artworks by using neutral textures and materials. The artworks were further enhanced by the use of lighting design, where both natural and artificial lighting were incorporated. What this extensive hands-on experience means for Decorex Africa, its exhibitors and trade guests is that Theo intimately understands the industry and what it needs, both now and in the future. He said: “The future of the built environment is driven by collaboration. The connection between the built environment and technology will see an increase in more self-sufficient and sustainable designs. The influence of automated and digital architecture and design will change the way in which design is experienced.” With regard to his role as Decorex Africa curator and his plans to reimagine the Build section, Bothma believes that “by carefully selecting different and original participants for Decorex 2022, we can open up the view of the building sector. “By having a wide range of participants from various sectors, we are encouraging collaboration. By highlighting the importance of collaboration, we will enhance the value of all sectors within the industry, allowing design to flourish.” Indeed, being part of Decorex 2022 as a curator has already allowed Bothma to both influence and learn more about design in his personal capacity. “Design is large, and we can all learn a great deal from each other,” he added. You too can learn more about the building industry’s latest and greatest, and who to collaborate with, at the upcoming Decorex Africa shows, taking place at the CTICC from June 16 to June 19 and at the Sandton Convention Centre from July 28 until July 31. For more information, visit www.decorex.co.za and https://tbad.co.za/. STAND A CHANCE TO WIN DOUBLE TICKETS TO DECOREX EMAIL: WADECOREX, your name and cellphone number to competitions@inl.co.za. The competition closes on Tuesday at 9am. Terms and conditions apply. Weekend Argus