Cape Town - It’s been 11 weeks since the Luyolo Construction site in Gugulethu was halted, allegedly due to extortion.  This site is one of three Airport Precinct infill sites. There were two separate shooting incidents earlier this year which left two workers with gunshot wounds. The first incident occurred on February 28 at the Tambo Village site, which resulted in an imposed site closure for a week to allow investigations to proceed and to provide  counselling to the traumatised workers. Another incident followed on March 17, which led to the 11-weeks halt. It is alleged that these incidents were preceded by acts of intimidation and threats at the sites by groups claiming to be representatives of an unknown business forum. MEC of Infrastructure Tertuis Simmers visited the site yesterday and the community, pleading that they report what he calls the “construction mafia”. “I would like to appeal to the community of greater Gugulethu to come forward and work together with the department and through their nominated steering committee to ensure that this project remains on track.  “To also assist the law enforcement agencies in apprehending these culprits, who seek to derail the progress of these projects at the detriment of the community, who have long made known their need for these houses to be completed and handed over to the deserving beneficiaries. “This project is intended to benefit the community from greater Gugulethu, who are the elderly backyard dwellers and people living with medically certified disabilities, and for that reason, we cannot allow anarchy to reign.” He added that to date, due to the site closures, the department has incurred financial losses amounting to R 8 560 000 and a chance to deliver more than 45 “housing opportunities”. “It is unfortunate that a project that is envisaged to yield 729 housing opportunities is now at risk of not materialising as a result of a few individuals. We urge the citizens that If anyone has knowledge of who these criminals are, kindly alert the authorities so that this crime spree may be brought to an end and construction can continue uninterrupted and deliver the much-needed houses,” added Simmers. The Western Cape, especially Cape Town, faces an enormous housing backlog. Nearly 600 000 applicants are waiting for houses in the province.  Resident Nomaphelo Mana said it was concerning that the community was held at ransom by criminals.  “We live in a gangster paradise and we seem to be losing the fight as the society. This is worrying and urgent intervention is needed before this project becomes a failure.” Simmers could not tell when construction would resume. He said his department would continue to engage its stakeholders, contractors and law enforcement agencies as it seeks to find a solution and get construction work under way. Weekend Argus Weekend Argus