Cricketer Leah Jones, 20, from Mitchells Plain is on a good wicket. Jones, from Colorado Park, has not only become the youngest woman to captain the Western Province team, but also the youngest to be part of the South African emerging team at the age of 19. The emerging side is a level before reaching the Proteas.  The bowling all-rounder, recalled her state of shock when her  captaincy was announced. “I’ve always loved  sports, I took part in athletics and netball, and cricket was the sport that us as a family would always play when we could.” Jones love cricket began in grade 3 at Pinelands Primary. She said she took part in her first mini-cricket match when the school’s coach told her that he would enter her for trials. “I didn't even know about women played cricket because when we played, it was always against boys. So I thought he was going to enter me into the boys team,” she said. “I then played for the junior girls team and kept on practising and working on my fitness until I was recognised.” Jones said that at times she felt the impact of the male dominance in the sport. “Cricket is referred to as a gentleman's sport but let me tell you, women’s cricket is a nail-biting sport. “The determination is even greater because you want to show that as a female you can also do the things and especially because the sport has grown so much.” She said her aim was to change the perception that  it was a male sport. “The guys are now sharing in our victories, but the main aim is to let girls know that its okay to sometimes swop your heels for cricket shoes. Trust me, no-one will judge.” Jones, who is in her second year of law at the University of the Western Cape, said playing for the Proteas was a dream come true. Her mother, Lee-Anne Riffel, recalled when her 13-year-old daughter was chosen to be part of the Western Province under-19 women’s team. “I am so proud, it becomes overwhelming at times because she loves sport and would be good at whatever she did. “I, however, never imagined her love for cricket growing so much, but it showed from the age of 12 when she became so disciplined in her lifestyle and her game. “For example, she would watch what she eats, to make sure that she is fit. She always also worked very hard putting effort into every practice session.  “I am just so proud.” Riffel said she also had faith that her daughter would received her national colours. “I can see it happening, so we just trust God (that it will),”  she said.