Cape Town - Crime experts have agreed that no one person or institution should make a decision on behalf of the affected communities. This comes after the ANC and Good party rejected the City of Cape Town’s plans to install CCTV cameras at crime hot spots, namely: Delft, Kraaifontein, Nyanga and Mitchells Plain. Criminologist at Stellenbosch University's political science department, Guy Lamb, said: “The bottom line is that the City of Cape Town has limited resources to combat and prevent crime, with the most effective approach being a joined-up strategy with provincial and national government. “The City and the Western Cape government have established a good working relationship to prevent crime and violence and co-operate through the province’s safety plan. However, work is needed to build a better relationship between SAPS and the City (on both sides) in order to effectively reduce crime,” he said. Senior associate with the Africa Centre for Security and Intelligence Praxis (ACSIP), Eldred de Klerk, said: “My essential takeaway is that the City of Cape Town has to provide the evidence that the rollout of additional CCTV cameras is born out of a sound public governance process.  “This is part of a raft of measures to deal with crime, grime and the criminogenic factors that plague the lives of residents across the City.  “And that the end goal of said strategy is to improve the quality of life of the residents of this fair city and have them feel and be safe.” ANC chief whip Xolani Sotashe said in the so-called roll-out plan, there is no clear deployment strategy for the cameras. “The so-called plan was never canvassed with affected communities. S “APS have complained about difficulties to access footage to these cameras.  “We have requested that the city must come up with a clear deployment strategy that is well canvassed with relevant stakeholders and affected communities. “As it stands now, it does not address the problems facing our communities.  “We told them that the plan must speak to the current and future crime challenges.  “This plan is for this current administration from 2022-2026.  “There was never public participation on this so-called plan.  “We want the City to work hand in hand with SAPS and communities. “It is our belief that cameras installed in poor areas are not of the same quality as cameras installed in affluent areas.  “We cannot settle for poor service in our areas whereas in the affluent areas service is of a high standard,” said Sotashe. Good’s Suzette Little said: “As a municipality, we deliver services with the funding we receive from public money. Therefore, when decisions are taken around how these funds need to be used, it must be done in a manner that provides us with the best possible value and outcome, and best serves our communities. “The technology presented as part of this solution, had not been successful in the past and came in at a cost of 31.5 million. Using this technology, they only succeeded in arresting 67 people, even though no mention of the arrests were made. “On the other hand, the DA is quoted as saying that of the approximately 73 000 incidents, only 2% of those resulted in arrests. This is not wise spending. We are rather calling for more funds to be invested in the Metro Police and the (Anti-) Gang Unit, so that communities can be empowered to work alongside the metro police and other authorities.” Councillor Avron Plaatjies said he is very disappointed in Good and ANC who voted against the City of Cape Town’s rolling out of CCTV cameras to some of our most vulnerable communities. “The plan was presented in accordance with primary data from research, support from the Western Cape Government, The Cape Town Metropolitan Police Department, safety structures along with a proven record of accomplishment presented to council to motivate the effectiveness in having CCTV cameras. “These cameras have aided policing in other areas over the last five  years. Officers need to be assisted by technology as it aids us to respond and pro-actively plan in the fight against crime. “Over the past five years (2016-2021), the cameras have undoubtedly proven their might, with staff monitoring 73 306 incidents and leading to 1356 arrests. Arrest or criminals rather that would have gotten away, was it not for the watchful electronic eyes keeping watch throughout the City. “It is very important to subside crime as this indirectly impacts on business and day to day activities and more importantly it makes the residents of Cape Town safer. Cameras serve as a tool to subside criminal activities for children to play out freely and for businesses to run,” he said.