MUAY Thai world champion Rayana Ameeroedien packs a mean punch and now she wants to teach children to defend themselves as crime and kidnapping have spiked.  Ameeroedien, 44,  is the World Professional Muaythai Federation Women’s Bantamweight world champion and owner of Rays Muay Thai Fitness Academy in Ottery. Ameeroedien recalled her last fight in 2015, where she gave her opponent a Knock-Out within the second round “With all the stories of kids being kidnapped I want to teach the children, to be aware of their surroundings, while being quick on their feet, mentally and physically. “I believe its also something that should be taught at a young age, between the ages of 8 and 12-years-old.”  “Muay Thai is known as king of the ring in kickboxing circles.”  The fiesty woman recalled her last fight in 2015, where she knocked-out her opponent in the second round. She has been teaching the martial art since 1999, to men, women and children including professional fighters who have become big names for themselves internationally. “I have always had an interest to empower others through my knowledge and ring skills. I will continue to promote the empowerment of women. “I am thankful for my Muay Thai journey and the courage it has given me as a woman, I am grateful to have met so many amazing people on my fighting journey, including my fight manager, the well known Naront Siri (Ajarn Pek) whom I call Papa. Sadly, he passed away this week in Thailand,” said Ameeroedien. Her hope is that more gyms would come on board and offer a safe space to allow children to learn self-defence. “Muay Thai originated from the battlefield-tactics of the Thai army. We need to train our children to protect themselves and we need to do it as a team, as harsh as it sounds, it's very necessary.” Shikara Dawood, whose two sons are enrolled at Rays said she had noticed a significant change in their discipline. “They wish they could train everyday. In the short space of time it has increased their strength, stamina and their confidence. “Coach Ray exudes power and it is so amazing for boys and men alike to see this, especially with the gender based violence that we as females are exposed to on a daily basis.” Ameeroedien also hosts free workshops a few times a month. Jamia Daniels whose son attended a workshop, told Weekend Argus that they had become more aware. “At first I thought I'm sending Adam to kickboxing class as a sport. But realised that Ray is teaching him emotional strength to use as tools to take on his journey through life.  “He seems more confident and happy knowing he has gained a few defending skills. The workshop was effective, educational and informative.”