Cape Town – In a dramatic scene, two armed robbers were caught in a matter of moments after a cash heist at a liquor store in Franschhoek. Three other robbers were arrested by police while one of them attempted fleeing via taxi in Kuils River during a separate scene. It had been the assistance of the community and a local security company which saw the two robbers behind bars yesterday. The Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation, the Hawks said the drama unfolded when the robbers had approached staff at the Diamond Discount Liquor Store in Franschhoek. The suspects who numbered three at the time, had approached an armoured vehicle which had a cash box and the suspects grabbed the cash box and attempted to make a getaway. The box was later recovered near the scene. A Fidelity security team attempted stopping the suspects and gave chase with their vehicle while the suspects were driving in a Ford Ka. When the suspects abandoned their vehicle and fled on foot, vigilant community members and security personnel spotted them and alerted the police. Zinzi Hani of the Hawks explained: “Two suspected robbers have been arrested in Franschhoek, Cape Town yesterday, 15 June 2022. “They were arrested following a robbery at Diamond Discount Liquor store  in Franschhoek. “The crewman was attacked by three suspects while entering the armoured vehicle, in the process the crewman dropped the canister box. “The suspects then collected the box and ran away. It was later recovered at a short distance from the crime scene. “It is reported that the Fidelity armed vehicle gave chase and rammed the Ford Ka straight after the attempted robbery, while fleeing the scene.” The Ford Ka was driven away and escaped the scene. Hani continued: “The suspects were on foot when they were spotted by members of the community who alerted the security in the area. “The police together with the local security company arrested the suspect. “The two suspects were ultimately arrested and the Ford Ka fled the scene but it was later found abandoned. “The Hawks were informed and took over the case for further investigation. The two suspects have been detained and will appear in the Paarl Magistrates’ Court on June 17 for their first court appearance.” The success in finding robbers didn’t end there. Police from the Kuils River Police Station managed to arrest three suspects who were involved in an armed robbery at a shop along Nooiensfontein Road. Police later discovered that one of the suspects was in possession of a firearm which had been stolen in the Eastern Cape in 2003. The suspects were arrested after an eagle-eyed motorist pointed him out to police while he was attempting to flee via taxi. Police spokesperson, Colonel Traut explained that more suspects were at large: “The swift response of two Kuils River SAPS members who reacted to a complaint of an armed robbery at a store in Nooiensfontein Road led to the arrest of three suspects yesterday afternoon. “The members were on routine patrol in the area when they were flagged down by a motorist who informed them that an armed robbery had just been perpetrated at a store dealing in second-hand goods. “The motorist pointed out one of the suspects who was about to flee in a taxi, but the quick reaction from the police landed him in handcuffs before he could get away. He was also found in possession of a 9mm pistol that was reported stolen in Zwelitsha in the Eastern Cape back in 2003. “Further investigation led to the arrest of two more suspects, while it is suspected that five suspects managed to get away in a white Toyota Etios. “The circumstances surrounding the robbery are being investigated and while the fleeing suspects are being sought, the three in our custody are scheduled to make a court appearance in the Kuils River Magistrates court once they have been charged.” Weekend Argus