The conciliation process between the Education Labour Relation Council and the former principal at Heathfield High School, Wesley Neumann, has ended in a deadlock as renewed call were made for his return to the school. Neumann approached the council last week Friday to state his case prior to the council making a finding concerning his conduct. Neumann was formally dismissed as principal in May after he refused to reopen the school amid the Covid-19 infection peak in 2020. Neumann’s dismissal has caused an uproar among parents and pupils who have been boycotting classes in a bid to have the former principal reinstated. Rofieka Benjamin, from the special action committee formed as a support group for Neumann, said the former principal would now proceed to arbitration. “We are disappointed that the head of education in the Western Cape Education Department, Brent Walters, did not present Neumann with an offer of reinstatement.”  Neuman turned down the offer to be head of department at a different school.  Benjamin said the committee would continue to strengthen its resolve. “We will hammer away at the injustices of our education department. “Decisions and findings always seem to favour a few elite officials within the bureaucracy who have abused power and process in their reckless behaviour towards teachers and principals. “The WCED seems to be at a loss as to why Neumann’s support base grows in strength. In a democracy, justice must not only happen in these cases but must be seen to be happening by the people.” In a provincial legislature’s written reply to ANC spokesperson on education Khalid Sayed, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) said it spent nearly R1 million in removing Neumann. Education MEC David Maynier’s response pinned the decision on his predecessor. Neumann’s disciplinary hearing cost R739 368, legal representation R653 843, and the presiding officer, R85 525. Legal costs associated with the appeal are being finalised, said Maynier. Meanwhile, the Representative Council of Learners (RCL), refused to return to class as an act of contempt towards the department's handling of the situation. And with less than four months to the final exams, matric pupils have only two things on their mind, to pass and to  fight for their ex-principal, explained RCL member Lionel Matyobeni. Matyobeni, 18, shared some of the reasons as to why the they have decided to support Neumann. “Mr Neumann was a principal not only for his school and community, but for each and every learner. He made things happen, he fought for us, to get things done, for example sports as an activity. We didn't have that spirit in us before, but he supported us as a father figure. “He made us want to achieve. As soon as he left things started going downhill because we didn't have that father role in our school anymore.” Matyobeni also said during the boycott, they had plans to pass their exams. “We have requested winter classes from the WCED, we also attend extra classes and teachers are helping us.”  A spokesperson for the department, Bronagh Hammond, said catch-up classes for Grade 12 learners were already under way at Heathfield High. “This will continue until next Thursday. Learners are encouraged to attend these classes as we countdown the days until the 2022 National Senior Certificate.”