Mastering stand-up comedy requires years of hard work and a tough armour against rejection.  Nkosinathi Maki who won the Jive Funny Championships understands the perseverance required.  After 11 years of trying to break into the comedy circuit, he secured a nightly spot at the Cape Town Funny Festival at the Baxter Theatre after winning a competition. His break came after he beat 65 comedians doing stand-up over four weeks to clinch the tittle as 2022 Jive Funny winner on June 4.   Maki said “Everyone that entered was so talented. When we reached the finals, I gave up on the thought that I might win this,” he said. “It hasn’t sunk in that I've won and get to perform at the Baxter. I’m used to playing in small clubs and restaurants.”  Maki also won R5 000 cash, a laptop and data contract from MTN, a R3 000 voucher from Canal Walk and the best prize of all – a chance to perform at the festival. On opening night, Maki knocked his set right out the park and was offered the opportunity to perform every night for the duration of the festival which runs until July 3. “Hearing that I get to come back every night was music to my ears.  “It’s a good sign and shows that I have what it takes,” he said. The 39-year-old is Cape Town-born but grew up in Gqeberha.  He returned to the Mother City in 2010 to begin his career in comedy.  Maki lives with his girlfriend Thato Hlapo and their three-year-old son, Tlali. In 2011, while living in Observatory, Maki stumbled upon the Armchair Theatre where people were doing stand-up comedy. “I was so intrigued I asked if I could perform, although I’d never done comedy before in my life,” he said. “They told me to come back the next week for a five-minute set,” he added. Maki said those first five minutes changed his life. “After that I ran my first comedy show and performed at more venues within my first month,” he said. It took dabbling in numerous jobs for Maki to realise comedy was how he wanted to earn a living. “I worked as a web designer, a driver for my uncle. Many things have changed but comedy has been the only constant in my life.” He added: “I was trying to find my feet in life and since then I’ve never looked back. Maki recalls being inspired by Trevor Noah’s “Daywalker” show. “That was the first time I saw that this is possible. I knew it was what I wanted to do but I didn't know how to get there,” he said. He added: “ Bernie Mac and Bill Burr are also comedic inspirations. Locally, we also have a great network of comedians.” His inspiration for his comedy comes from his life. “My jokes are based on my life, and things that I find interesting. I’m always looking for something interesting in my own life that I can share with the world,” he said. His son, Tlali, is the biggest driving force. “Nappies are expensive,” he joked. His advise to aspiring comedians is to keep working on their craft. “It took me just over ten years to get my break. For some people, things happen instantly and for others they take time,” he said. “I’m one of those people for who things took time.  “Don’t compare yourself with others, your time will come when it comes,” he said. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa