Cape Town - Author and public speaker Dr Charley Pietersen made his way to Lavender Hill to share hope with fatherless children and those with absent fathers. Pietersen is author of “Growing Up Without a Father” and has a vision of one day opening a school for children who grew up without fathers, especially boys. Pietersen and his wife Brenda are the founders of the Growing Up Foundation and he is a motivational speaker, life coach and author of four books. With Father’s Day coming up this month, Pietersen found himself in Lavender Hill earlier this week and joined the Power of the Fathers and Men conference, which was also attended by MEC for Social Development, Sharna Fernandez. His book, published a few years ago, was revived at the conference to create awareness on this topic. Pietersen decided to share his book and vision again, touching on the sensitive topic of the fatherless children. Pietersen and his brother were raised by a single mother in the small town of Smithfield just outside of Bloemfontein. Both fathers had left them when they were just babies. He has now dedicated his life to creating awareness about fatherless children and ideology of making a stronger man despite their experiences. “We shared the same mother, my brother and I, both our fathers left when we were just babies,” said Pietersen. “My mother decided to raise her children on her own. When I became a father, I attended a Father’s Day event at church and they called up the fathers. I stood up as a father but there was a brokenness, I decided then I needed to write a book about us children who grew up without a father. “I have a vision to open a school like that of Oprah Winfrey’s Leadership Academy for Girls, but for fatherless boys especially.” Pietersen said during his time at the conference he shared his experience of meeting his father at the age of 21 and forgiving him. He has also met international and local giants such as Steve Harvey and Nelson Mandela during his journey. “I took my friend with me the day I met my father, and my father only afterwards realised which one of us is his son, but what did I do in that moment? I decided to release myself and him and forgive him, and that is what I share with young men especially, to release yourself from that darkness and anger and give peace and forgiveness.” He hopes to fly to the USA soon but needs support locally to help share his vision.  “I want to do it South African-style and make a placard and say ‘I am South African’, and that I would like to meet Tyler Perry outside one of his venues where he is, because I want to share my vision for it to become a reality.” With National Child Protection week (May 29 to June 5), MEC Fernandez said the testimonies of absent fathers were shared, and it paved the way for healing. “The men in the room were mostly men who grew up without and never knew their fathers,” she said. “The anger and pain men carry must never be under-estimated. Testimonies of finding an absent father and the joy and sadness experienced by some was gut-wrenching. Powerful testimonies of healing, hope and resilience of the human spirit carried us through. “As women, we need to reflect on the role we play in nurturing our children while we may not be in agreement with their fathers. Boys grow up to be broken men. I heard and saw it first-hand. In Child Protection Week, let’s spare a thought for many young boys and girls growing up without fathers. “Thank you to the Upper Room Family Worship Centre for your commitment to this vital aspect of healing required in the world as we know it.” Weekend Argus