Cape Town - A fast-developing new robotics air sport, played by two teams of five players, is making its way to South Africa. Drone soccer is played in a netted arena with radio-controlled quadcopters in protective exoskeletons – designed for collisions – and is recognised under eSports. However, before players can compete, they first need to build, programme, fly and repair drones.  Founder of the Youth Media Movement Marshall Nelson is starting this in South Africa in partnership with US Drone Soccer. The sport will be launched in Mitchells Plain on June 14. Nelson said: “Drone soccer is a thrilling enrichment programme that emphasises teamwork, critical thinking, and familiarises students with actual industrial skills in modelling, programming, manufacturing and operational testing. “It can provide schools with an exciting platform for career and technical education skills as well as real-world lessons in science, technology, engineering and mathematics,” he said. Established in 2008, Youth Media Movement focuses on digital literacy, databases, drones, building web pages, coding and 3D printing. Nelson said they can create hope and opportunity within the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) space. “4IR represents a new era of innovation in technology, one that’s enhancing human-machine relationships, unlocking new market opportunities and growth across the global economy. “Creating a 4IR community will excite the youth, educators, parents and businesses to believe in their future and show how they can access opportunities locally. “Recognising that is a journey. From theory to practical hands-on products, moving onto monetising skills, to learning and earning in this exciting new landscape. Popularising and informing people about how to understand and access the internet of things, digital and 4IR, will put emphasis on that. “Currently 4IR is not very big in South Africa, it is like butter for countries like the US and Nigeria. As a Third World country we have a lot of catching up to do,” he added. Premier Alan Winde said: “I am really impressed with the work that Marshall Nelson is doing in promoting tech-enabled futures for the youth of Mitchells Plain and the broader region. From drone football to 3D printing, he is making the 4IR more accessible, and even more appealing, to young people. “I appeal to young people to push yourselves and learn about industries and skills that will align with the future and technology. So many of the jobs that will exist by the time you leave school do not even exist yet, but you can line yourself up by developing skills in computing, coding, robotics and design. “It is important that you remain curious throughout the rest of your lives as this will ensure that you are aware of the opportunities around you,” he said.