Many consumers face tough decisions on how to make ends meet as food and fuel prices surge. The price of petrol increased on Wednesday and costs R24 a litre, diesel R23 a litre and paraffin about R18 a litre. Despite an extension of the rebate on the fuel levy consumer pockets would be further impacted as other price hikes such as electricity and municipal services were expected to come into effect in July. Residents of Masiphumelele in Fish Hoek have also called on the  government to find ways to cushion the blow for the poor. A local teacher, Sello Matloporo decided to move out of Gugulethu to be close to the school where he works in Masiphumelele. “Leaving my house in Gugulethu, family and friends was not an easy decision. But one I had to take. I have a big car, a Jeep, which guzzles fuel. It would cost me around R2 000 for a full tank of petrol.  “I now park the car in the yard and walk to school or use minibus taxis to go to the malls", said Matloporo. However, with the move came an additional item on his budget, the cost of transport for his two school-going children. In addition, the Matloporo household also cut back on grocery spending. “Food has also become expensive. We had to forgo some items we regarded as staples on the list. But now the price of vegetables is also up. So is the price of chicken. To say that households are living from hand-to-mouth is an understatement. It feels like we are going backwards. Salaries are not keeping pace with the rising costs,” said Matloporo. He also called on the government to look at other areas where changes could be made. FoodForward SA managing director, Andy Du Plessis said fuel was now 40% more than a year ago and this has had a detrimental effect on food price inflation. FoodForward SA is an organisation that addresses hunger by recovering surplus food from the consumer goods supply chain and distributing it to community organisations that work with the needy.  “Pre-Covid, an estimated 14 million people were food insecure. Today an estimated 30 million people (which is half our population) are experiencing food insecurity during each month. With the continuous rise in food and fuel costs it is likely that we will see an increase in this number. Rising food prices further increases food affordability and availability, especially nutritious food, which is too costly for the poor to afford. We are facing an urgent food security crisis,” said Du Plessis. Another resident, and small business owner, Mfundiso Ngetu, was concerned about the planned rise in electricity costs in July. “Just this week I bought electricity for R100 and only received 30 units.  “I will spend more on energy from July1.  “And the loaf of bread in the townships is about R17 – the price might increase soon. “I use petrol a lot as I am also involved in construction.  “I only use my car for business related trips.  “But I fear even minibus taxi fares will also go up ,” said Ngetu, adding that “not long ago” he bought a 9kg gas bottle for R185 but now it costs around R325.  “Paraffin sells for around R24 a litre,” said Ngetu. He warned that the rising costs would result in a rise in the levels of crime, hunger and poverty for people who were already faced with high unemployment. "In the area where I stay, which is mainly RDP houses, many homeowners have moved and rent out their homes. Some have move into the informal settlements", added Ngetu. For Nyameko Adonisi, the R24 a litre price of petrol was threatening the sustainability of his scholar transport business. He said the cost of transporting each child will soon increase from R380 per month  to R430. “Most parents are unemployed and depend on child support grants.  “If we increase the fare this might also affect business, but we are left with no choice.  “There are added costs to running the business besides the fuel cost. “I have three children whose ages range from two years old to 14 years old.  “I have to feed them as well – I now even struggle to buy cooking oil,” said Adonisi. Du Plessis said the organisation had seen an increase in the demand for help from organisations that work with the vulnerable people. “In 2019, we were serving a network of 550 beneficiary organisations.  “Since the onset of the pandemic, we had to expand our reach and scale up our operations.  “Today  we serve close to 2 400 beneficiary organisations who provide daily meals to close to 1 000 000 beneficiaries across the country.  “The need for food is increasing rapidly,” said Du Plessis. He also warned that the equality gap would broaden in the coming months as food prices increased following the fuel price increases. “We will see poverty levels increase sharply.  “People have been struggling for a long time, and the pandemic made it even more difficult for poor people to survive.  “FoodForward SA is still scaling up, especially in vulnerable rural communities, so that we can reach as many under-served communities across South Africa,” said Du Plessis.