Wrongfully accused mob justice victim, Abongile Mafalala, was stabbed numerous times, bitten by a dog in the face and set alight.  This is according to the Grassy Park police station’s commander Colonel Dawood Laing who released details of  Mafalala murder by an angry mob.  Mafalala’s story has caused an outcry of the dangers of spreading fake news after it is alleged that two gangsters had started a rumour that the Du-Noon resident had tried to kidnap two children in Parkwood on the day of his murder, on Tuesday. Laing said the deceased was in the area to pick up customers when he was robbed by the two gangsters who conjured the story after Mafalala resisted the robbery. Laing explained that an officer was on his way to court when he drove past the M5 and noticed the commotion. “He drove straight to the scene while radioing for back-up. It took our members maximum three minutes to get there.” But it was too late for Mafalala “By that time Mafalala had already stabbed, beaten with a spade and bitten in the face by a dog.” Laing also said there were no reports of child kidnapping or an attempted kidnapping reported to the police station on the day. “Initial reports suggests that there was three people in the car, one was Mafalala and the other two were the gangsters who robbed him,” he said.  “This is barbaric. This man came into the community to render a service, he parked his car to wait for the people who ordered the service, he did not harm anyone, he was there to make a living.” Laing added that the police have made 14 arrests so far and assured that more arrests are imminent. “We have positive evidence against 39 people connected to the bundu court.” However, residents said if the police had acted swiftly on calls from community members about the attack, Mafalala would most likely still be alive. A resident who spoke to Weekend Argus on a condition of anonymity out of fear of being victimised, said she was one of the people who immediately called the police station to report what was happening. “I called while they were still chasing the guy but they only came when they had already beaten the man.” Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi, a police spokesperson said Grassy Park police were  executing an operation to arrest those behind the murder of the e-hailing driver. “A number of people have been brought in for questioning, and once they have been charged, they are due to make a court appearance in the Wynberg Magistrate’s court on a charge of murder. “A plea is hereby made to social media users, to use these platforms responsibly and to verify the source as well as the authenticity of the information before sharing it. We encourage anyone who witnesses a crime taking place to report it to law enforcement agencies immediately.”