Cape Town - Based on the life of a South African political detainee, “Prison Notebook V2957/88” shares the experience of Gertrude Fester.  During Fester’s time in confinement, no writing materials were allowed and she decided to compose a one-woman play, “Apartheid’s Closet: The Spirit Cannot be Caged” in her head. Her new book, “Prison Notebook V2957/88”, tells us about her experiences in prison in the 1980s after she was charged for treason. However, charges were withdrawn as the State could not prove them. The charge of treason was then converted to terrorism. Fester said it was important to capture the anti-apartheid struggles and the treatment of prisoners during political detention. “The roles of women and ordinary people against apartheid are crucial for our youth to know. I am also totally surprised by the number of comments from white friends (who see themselves as progressive) who shared with me ‘how they really knew nothing about the experiences’ I write about.  “Others have actually asked me to translate it into Afrikaans as there is another very important constituency that should read this and similar books. “There are very few books written by women on this subject, especially women with Khoisan and slave ancestors. There is an arrogance from some quarters (especially the EFF) that so-called Africans were the only ones fighting for freedom.  “In this book I emphasise the ‘Rainbow Trial’ role of all people (whites, coloureds, ‘Africans’, Muslim, Christian and atheists), who all sacrificed their lives to work towards freedom for all,” she said. Youth, students, researchers of history and people should read this book in order to understand what happened in Fester’s past. It is also written in a very informal way to make reading easier. She said: “People can gain insight into our history and also personal worlds of people they may not often meet. I have included an update of the trialists’ lives.  “I stress that our trial is a microcosm of the new South Africa. Some of us have been MPs at national Parliament and some important political deployments, whereas others have not had a decent job since the 1990s. “A few of us, like me, live in a beachfront flat, whereas others live in informal settlements in Khayelitsha. So yes, the contradictions are there. It is sad that South Africa has the highest gini coefficient in the world.  “We worked for a South Africa that will be equitable, that all will have dignity, enjoy human rights and have all basic rights but we have failed. We have failed our people,” she said. Former premier of the Western Cape Lynne Brown said: “Gertrude Fester captures an important time and place in the history of South Africa. Apartheid South Africa was a violent, torturous, exploitative and oppressive system to live under. “As citizens, the choice was a fight or submit to apartheid. She chose to fight against the racist racism. The fight led to her imprisonment under Section 29 and she was tried under the Treason and later Terrorism Acts,” she said. The book retails at R280 at Book Lounge.