Cape Town music sensation Keanu Harker has announced the release of his new single which will be featured at a listening party later this month. The single, titled ‘No More’ is being released ahead of his next album that he is still working on. His debut album, I Believe in Me, was released in November 2021 and sports ten R&B and soul tracks. Harker has performed on stages of big festivals like the KKNK, K-Day, the Grandwest Arena and many more. He’s performed alongside acts like Lloyd Cele, Loyiso Bala, Don Vino Prins and many more. The single launch party will be hosted at the Jamrock Theatre in Brackenfell on Wednesday, June 15 at 8 PM. Harker said he wanted to celebrate the work he’s put into the single and wants attendees to treat it as a listening party. “I want them to give feedback as the sound of this track is quite different from my other music,” he said. He was inspired to host a physical event following the two-year-long hold that the pandemic placed on the entertainment industry. “It’s been a while since I’ve hosted an original show with live music and a live band. I’m doing this for the people but I’m also doing it myself,” he said. Harker said the song ‘No More’ was written to inspire people. “No matter what we face or go through, we can put the negativity aside and say no more. No more crying, no more hiding, no more backing down,” he said. “The song is an anthem for us to stand up for what we believe in,” he added. Attendees will get to hear the song ahead of its release on Youth Day. Harker said releasing the track on Youth Day was intentional. “I hope it can be a motto to the youth. There’s a line in the song that says, ‘We’ve been minimised for so long,' but it’s time for us to stand up for what we believe in,” he said. He added: “As the youth of South Africa and the youth of the world, it’s time for us to say no more to feeling small.” Harker said that those attending the single launch party can expect an evening of great music with relatable stories. “This will give people the experience of what my music is like. There will be songs from my debut album, some sing-along classics and just an opportunity for the audience to relate and enjoy themselves,” he said. Tickets for the ‘No more’ release event cost R170 and can be purchased via email using lyle@kl-entertainment.co.za Weekend Argus Keshia Africa