Cape Town - Today marks three years since drum major Chad Arendse was shot and the family are still waiting for justice. Arendse’s family took to social media this morning, sharing their last moments with the 19-year-old who had played an important role in the community by helping to educate and train young children to drill and perform in the marching squad. Arendse was a drum major for the Littlewood Primary Drill Squad and the Western Province Marching Squad. Arendse was attending a 21st birthday party of a friend in Rocklands when he was shot and killed  on June 16, 2019. It is believed Arendse was shot more than 10 times. He was involved in the Malay and Christmas Choir and was a member of the  Pennsylvanians Minstrels and also taught many children. He was about to join the South African Navy a year before he died. Charlton Dyers is on trial at the Mitchells Plain Regional Court. The trial has been dragging on for years and is now at the stage where the defence will bring their list of witnesses. The first witness for the defence is expected to continue their testimony on the stand on June 21. Last year Dyers’ team called for a discharge, known as a Section 174, for all charges to be dropped in that the State had not proven their case, but this was dismissed. Dyers has since pleaded not guilty to the murder. Arendse’s mother, Natasha Arendse, said the family were outraged and disappointed that the case had been dragging on. “They are currently busy with the first witness for the accused side,” she said. “I am really disappointed in our justice system. I feel our case is dragging, and they have everything for the trial to proceed.  My son deserves justice.” Friends and relatives of Arendse also took to Facebook. Ashley Williams wrote: “Today marks three years that you are gone Chad and it still feels so unreal, we all miss you dearly, you were such an encouragement to me and you were my role model since I was eight-years-old. “I liked the way you marched but when I wanted to prove to you I am a good marcher, they took you.”