Cape Town - A 13-year-old girl and her brother have been left wounded, and a 16-year-old boy was murdered during two shootings on Father’s Day, which has left community forums puzzled. During the first incident, the 13-year-old girl and her 20-year-old brother were sitting and relaxing in a backyard in Ventura Street in Factreton, Kensington, when they were ambushed by a gunman just after 10.30am on Sunday. It is understood the 13-year-old girl has been shot in the back and will require surgery. The brother was treated on the scene. The Kensington Policing Forum said detectives are trying to establish why the gunmen had rushed into the backyard and opened fire on two innocent people. Police are investigating whether the incident is gang-related. Police spokesperson Sergeant Wesley Twigg explained: “The circumstances surrounding a shooting incident Sunday morning at about 10.30am in Ventura Street, Factreton, Kensington, where a 13-year-old female and a male was shot and wounded are under investigation. “According to reports, Kensington police were called to the crime scene where they found the victims with gunshot wounds to the leg and arm. “The victims were taken to a medical facility for medical treatment. Cases of attempted murder were registered for investigation. “The unknown suspect/s fled the scene and are yet to be arrested.”  Police were called to a second scene involving a minor, where the 16-year-old boy was shot and killed in Linda Court in Heideveld. In Heideveld, police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said police had made no arrests in the teen’s murder: “Circumstances surrounding a shooting incident on Sunday at 8.20pm where a 16-year-old boy was shot and fatally wounded in the parking area of Linda Court Heideveld, Manenberg are under investigation. “The possibility that this incident can be gang related will be investigated.  “A murder case was opened for investigation. No arrests have been made. “Anyone with information is kindly requested to contact Manenberg SAPS 021 699 9400 or Crime Stop 0860 010 111.” Cheslyn Steenberg, the chairperson of the Kensington Community Policing Forum, said the two victims are innocent and are calling on witnesses to come forward to state that the gunman was known to residents. “The Kensington CPF condemns the recent shooting of two innocent youngsters in Ventura Street yesterday, Sunday. “The Kensington SAPS is investigating two cases of attempted murder where a 13-year-old female and a 20-year-old male - brother and sister. The brother was treated on the scene, but the sister was taken to the hospital. “The perpetrator is known to the community and is being sought. “The circumstances are being investigated as these victims are not gangsters; they were soaking up the Sunday morning sun in their backyard; for the perpetrator to enter the premises and shoot them is mind-boggling. The Kensington CPF has faith in the process of bringing the perpetrator to book. We have recently witnessed successful operations executed and successful bail contests in court - the wheels of justice are turning. “We pray for a speedy recovery of the victims and hope that the community stands firmly behind the Kensington CPF as we continue to build the bridge of trust and unity between the community and the Kensington SAPS in the fight against crime. “Anyone with information about the matter can contact the investigation officer, Warrant Officer Smart, on 082 850 9618 or 10111.” Weekend Argus