Cape Town - A 35-year-old man has been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Western Cape High Court. Vusumzi Pothelwa was convicted for the murder of his 8-month-old child, whom he doused with paraffin before setting her alight in Du Noon in November 2019. He was also convicted of attempting to murder his former girlfriend, Sivuyisive Mtshengu, and assaulting her and arson. The court sentenced him to life imprisonment for Khwezi’s murder, four years’ imprisonment for Mshengu’s attempted murder and six months’ imprisonment for assault and a year imprisonment for arson. It was ordered that all the sentences run concurrently and Pothelwa was declared unfit to possess a firearm. Advocate Leon Snyman praised the excellent work of the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Thumani Mayekiso. “He was very supportive, did a thorough job and was investigating outside his scope. It was a very difficult case, where a baby’s life was taken in that manner. There wasn’t a day where he couldn’t answer his phone even after hours,” he said. Director of Public Prosecutions, advocate Nicolette Bell, welcomed the sentencing and praised the cooperation between the police and the National Prosecuting Authority in this case. Director of Molo Songololo Patric Solomons said they also welcomed the sentencing.  “However, the sentence handed down by the court does not match the horrible crime committed. It will not help to deter other men from brutally attacking and killing their children out of frustration or spitefulness. “It is shameful that the court did not find this horrible murder of a defenceless baby serious.The sentence will not allow the victim’s family to find closure and healing. “The killing of defenceless babies and children by their fathers, as a result of conflict and dispute with the mother of their children, is very disturbing and misogynistic.The Department of Justice must review this sentence,” he said. Community activist Roegshanda Pascoe said this was a no win situation, which is created by the justice system. “They have not looked at the seriousness of the matter. For a person to douse someone else with petrol and setting them alight is inhumane. The state is perpetuating the violence that is instilled in our people coming from way back up-till now and they are just building on it. “As an activist, I would really like to know: in which book did these judges study these sentences they have given, where do they draw their analysis from of how they should sentence these types of cases and who decided the harshest of punishments for these crimes that are committed. I don’t see the victim getting anything out of how this judgement has been put out,” she said. Weekend Argus