Cape Town - A promotion usually brings joy, but for Nyanga residents, it is a bittersweet pill to swallow. Their station commander has been promoted from Brigadier to Major General and is leaving to be a district commissioner in Nelson Mandela Bay. Nyanga was synonymous with murders because for many years it was known as the murder capital of South Africa. Even now, people find it difficult to disassociate the area with the title. Brigadier Vuyisile Ncatha managed to raise Nyanga from the ashes and has been rewarded for his hard work. “It is every cop’s dream to become a general. “I am happy that I will be able to contribute not only to one station, but many stations,” said Ncatha. Ncatha has been station commander for eight years in Nyanga. Before that, he was stationed in Langa. He said he embraced the opportunity to come and work in Nyanga. In his first four months in office, he called the media on a walkabout to some of the notorious areas in Nyanga, detailing his vision for the once most feared areas in Cape Town. At the time, it seemed like a mission impossible because others before him failed to lift Nyanga from being a murder capital. Results started coming in as years went by and for the first time, Nyanga showed a glimpse of hope. “It was not easy, people did not even have to guess which station will be the number one murder capital when crime statistics are presented. The word murder capital seemed it was tailored for Nyanga. We did it without CCTV cameras and other technology that assist in crime-fighting,” he said. Ncatha said he first instilled discipline in his officers and worked hand-in-hand with the community to a point that he would be invited to lunch dates by community members. He would join marches and organise sports tournaments. “Remember, the criminals come from this area, but they do not live alone. I improved my service to the community members then the parents would praise me in front of their sons. That had a positive impact and there were other policing measures we used, but the most important measure was to work well with the community,” he said. Nyanga is currently ranked number 21 on the recent crime statistics for the top 30 murder stations, which is better than Harare, Kraaifontein, Delft, Mfuleni, and Khayelitsha. Ncatha is not going to a new area, as he grew up in KwaZakhele in Gqeberha. He did almost all of his studies there. “I am going home. “I have always wanted to revive the local soccer team and assist the communities I grew up in,” he said. Despite his success, Ncatha said there is still a lot to be done to improve police services. “There are many challenges like environmental design and the slow conviction rate. “I think we are the only country where a person can be sentenced to life imprisonment but may be released again. Also, section 35 of the Constitution gives more rights to people that have broken the law,” he said. During the announcement of the quarterly crime statistics, Minister Bheki Cele pointed out that they were facing a headache of promoting a certain station commander because the community does not want him to go. He was referring to Ncatha. Dumisani Qwebe a crime fighter in Nyanga said the community is happy about his promotion but sad that they are losing a dedicated man. “He is not an office-based station commander. “He deserves the promotion and we are happy for him, Eastern Cape will benefit greatly from his experience. You can call Ncatha any time, everyone in Nyanga has his number. That is how connected with the community he is,” said Qwebe. Nyanga CPF chairperson Martin Makasi also said Ncatha had an open door policy. “He understood the importance of partnership. He understood the agenda of the people, we worked well with him. There were challenges, but he never took things personally and he acted against rotten police,” Makasi said. Makasi said Ncatha spent most of his time in the police station than with his family. “I once asked him when does he spend time with his family. He was not there for a salary. Our wish was that he does not leave the province because we knew that his hard work will be recognised,” he said. Nyanga resident Thulani Phike said they hope to get another Ncatha as his replacement. “No-one has ever managed to achieve what he achieved here in that time. “It takes a decade to turn around a police station and drop murders, but Ncatha did in his eight years here. I am worried about what will happen to Nyanga after his departure. That man did not politicise crime because he knows crime knows no political organisation, it affects us all,” he said. Ncatha said he was humbled by the praise he has received. He assured the Nyanga community that SAPS management will bring in a suitable replacement. He leaves Nyanga at the end of the month.