Cape Town - A clean scent with a fresh and charming white floral note, an animalic undertone and a blend of warmth will definitely make an impression on others. Lukretia Booysen’s passion for her Khoisan culture and heritage has led her to produce South Africa's first indigenous fragrance line. The Lukretia /Nami (love) !Gai Ham Xun (something which smells nice in Khoekhoegowab) perfume line celebrates and teaches about Khoisan culture and its languages. The unveiling of the product will take place at Morgenhof Wine Estates in September, however, the product has been on the market for two weeks. Booysen said aside from it being a beautiful fragrance, it is an ode to her culture. “A love letter to our ancestors and all of us who stem from it. I am so passionate about celebrating this important part of my and our South African heritage. I felt it necessary to create something everyone could relate to, which could (educate) people all over the world about our indigenous languages and culture.  “Something that could be used across borders but still has meaning and depth and can be used by any person regardless of background or ethnicity or nationality. “Smelling good is universal. Every person loves to smell good. It is the crowning glory of every dressing ritual in the morning or at night. It lifts your mood and is one of the simple pleasures of life. When people meet you, before they even say a word, your scent greets them first. “This is a scent that was created with this in mind. When people ask you, what are you wearing? You would say /Nami and it will start a conversation. A conversation that brings us back home. Something all South Africans and possibly the world is attached to in some historical way. Yet it connects us all. I think that’s what’s different about the /Nami !Gai Ham Ham Xun,” she said. Booysen is also the founder of the Koena Art Institute, an organisation which celebrates and preserves Khoena heritage and identity. “It’s an art gallery and creative space where we have indigenous storytelling, performances, small theatre productions, language classes and literature readings. “We also hosted our first film screening two weeks ago and opened the space to indigenous creators to showcase their work. The heritage building was built in 1889, and is sponsored by Werner Property Agents,” she said. A regular visitor to the Koena Art Institute and friend, Karin Benjamin van Lierop, said Booysen is a warm and loveable person. “Everyone falls in love with her because of her personality. Launching her own perfume is absolutely fabulous. She is not bound to just the one thing but looks for other adventures and gets it right. I would like to wish her lots of luck on this new path and I am sure she will succeed.” The perfume retails at R700 and can be purchased at Louise Decor & Design, Koena Art Institute and The Khoena Beauty Bar.