A DEVASTATED Nyanga family is seeking answers after gunmen stormed their home and murdered their grandmother while searching for a “cellphone thief”. Nomzi Piyose, 65, was shot after two unknown gunmen, who entered her home, under the guise of looking for her youngest son, opened fire. The incident occurred on Thursday night shortly after 8:30pm, where as many as 10 shots were fired in the house. According to relatives, the grandmother was preparing for bed when the perpetrators came to her home. Family members, who spoke to Weekend Argus on condition of anonymity as they feared for their lives, said shortly after the men walked in and were shown the person they were supposedly looking for, shots were fired, but allegedly not at the suspected cellphone thief. “They knocked like ordinary visitors, and one of the children opened the door,” said a relative. “They asked where (the youngest child) was, and said he robbed (someone) of their cellphone.” The elderly relative added that the suspects were told the person they were looking for was in the kitchen, but they saw him, did nothing – only to walk down the passage and open fire when Piyose followed them. “Her death has left a big gap, and that can never be filled by anyone. She was a very sweet woman,” said the relative. Family members conceded that the relative sought by the gunmen was “naughty” and had previously been arrested. Another relative said he was woken by the shots while he was in his room in the backyard. “I woke up to check what was happening and when I was in the corridor, I saw these guys; one of them was still firing shots inside the house,” said the 38-year-old. “I did not see the face of the shooter, but after (taking in the scene), I quickly ran back to the outside bedroom to avoid the bullets. “After a few minutes I went out and I saw (Piyose) lying there not talking while blood seeped out of her body,” he said. He said the two children inside the house were traumatised and taken to the doctor for check ups and counselling. Another relative said they were shocked by the incident, as the dead woman was a friendly person. “She was a very nice person and always smiling,” said the 70-year-old. “I am devastated, because I do not know why she would die like that.” Acting chairperson of the Community Police Forum (CPF) in Nyanga, Michael Bangani, said they had been made aware of the incident. “When I heard the news I was disappointed. How can people still do that to a woman while we know the status of gender-based violence and its impact on our communities?” Bangani asked. “We are asking our people to stop the shooting. We need to encourage programmes of awareness and talk to our people. Churches and community structures must play their role and help our men and young boys to be aware of gun violence and GBV.” Police spokesperson Colonel Andrè Traut confirmed that a case of murder had been registered for investigation, but that no arrests had been made