The LGBTQIA+ community came out to paint the community of Tafelsig in its vibrant queer colours, raising awareness to issues such as queer-suicide and hate crimes. Community activist and member of the queer community Joanie Fredericks, led a march  from Oliefantshoek through  to Pyrenees Street, highlighting calling for the end  of homophobic attacks, killings, and speech. “Today we want to say thank you for stepping out with us. We will no longer allow any young gay people to commit suicide because of the stigma. We are all human at the end of the day and we want those who belong to the community to know that we support you.” said Fredericks. Among the guests, was LGBT Cape Peninsula Pageant 2022 Queen Emogen Moore, who dazzled in her fearless African ensemble. Moore said her heart was filled to see so many young people coming out to support the awareness walk. “We need to create as much awareness around the LBTQIA+ community, so that in five to six years none of the hate crimes takes place. It is also just so heartwarming to see these young people step out in the plight to end homophobic attacks, this is where we need to start at the grassroot.” Western Cape minister of Health and Wellness Nomafrench Mbombo, also  encouraged the queer community to become engaged in the health facilities. “There are conversations that needs to take place, conversations that requires our queer communities input as well. “I acknowledge that the government, not just in health, needs to do something, especially where trans people are concerned, they are also humans and this is not just about unisex toilets, so we need to create this type of platform to show that there is no discrimination.” Member of the Western Cape Provincial Legislature, Ricardo Mackenzie added that the march was a call out to end the attacks on the queer community.  “Our community needs to become more accepting and loving.” said Mackenzie. Zabian Titus, 27, who is part of the LGBTQIA+ community said he appreciated the efforts made to raise awareness, but called on his fellow queer community to also step up when it came to such events. “We know that we get support from straight people, but we also need to show them that we are here standing with them. Its just so sad that not more gay people came out, because these are the platforms we need ti make use of to create awareness. “Like I always say, being gay is not a choice its an identity, so its not about fitting in but rather about being true to yourself.”