The Western Cape has registered more than 16 000 neighbourhood watch (NHW) members as communities try to secure the streets. There are 441 accredited neighbourhood watch groups with 16 084 registered members in the Western Cape. This is an increase from the 322 NHWs that were registered last year according to the provincial department of Community Safety and Police Oversight. The departments MEC Reagan Allen said these men and women were diligently fighting crime in their respective communities. “They make immense sacrifices, and for this, we are truly grateful. It will be impossible to thank them enough,” he said. “Their active involvement in combating crime proves that the greater society shares my hope that we can overcome this evil in our communities,” he added. On Monday, Allen signed the accreditation certificates of new neighbourhood watch groups that were eager to take to the streets to help keep their communities safe. “Some have interesting, yet inspirational names, with one being called Zero Crime Neighbourhood Watch,” he said. Allen said to overcome crime, everyone must play their part. “The patrols that I’ve been on thus far are truly encouraging. They continue to include neighbourhood watch groups, community police forums, SAPS, law enforcement, private security firms and all other stakeholders,” he said. “It shows that communities are determined to ensure that crime does not overcome us.” To begin a NHW, residents are encouraged to establish the kind of support and interest that exists in their communities. And once there is proven interest, each member needs to understand their responsibilities. Following this, the NHW has to decide who the opening office bearers will be. This applies to posts like chairman, secretary, treasurer, etc. Once the office bearers have been chosen, the NHW has to draw up a constitution and set a date for its first public meeting. Once the all the administrative processes are complete, the NHW can apply for accreditation with the department and their local police station. This will allow the NHW to become eligible for training, funding, and support from the department. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa