PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has defended his suspension of Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane as she announced a probe into his involvement in the $4 million (about R62m) Farmgate scandal. Ramaphosa managed to skirt questions on his alleged attempt to cover up the theft of multimillion-dollars from his Phala Phala farm,  citing “due process”.  He attended a media briefing on Friday shortly after delivering his reply to the Presidency budget vote in Parliament. Multiple investigations are under way into the alleged theft from Ramaphosa’s farm two years ago after former State Security head Arthur Fraser opened a police case last week.  Ramaphosa evaded questions relating to the scandal stating that he was advised to let the police investigations conclude. “I have been given some counsel by a number of members of Parliament (to) let the due process happen as regards to things like – was this money laundering, how much money was there, was there any torture and all those related questions. “I will say if I were to be charged there are processes within the governing party.  ‘I have offered to go on a voluntary basis to the integrity commission. “That is a process I would like to follow, I’m not going to run away and not be available to respond to whatever issues.  “But I’d like the due process to unfold in relation to this matter including questions on whether I have made a statement to the Hawks.” Responding to questions from Independent Media on whether he would step aside if the integrity commission recommended it, Ramaphosa said he could not predict what the commission would say.  “I will present myself to the commission and they will make their recommendation.  “I cannot pre-empt what the commission will say,” he said. Ramaphosa also said there was nothing untoward about the timing of Mkhwebane’s suspension, adding that the matter was discussed since March.  “That whole process took quite a long time, I’d given her 10 days (to state why she shouldn’t be suspended) and it has been back and forth responses that went beyond that. “She raised quite a number of issues (including) conflict, I could have been involved in judicial capture myself, the Zondo commission and Bosasa and a whole range of other issues. “I took her representations and analysed each one of them.  “I wrote back… a 9-page letter and I said I do not believe there is a conflict of interest, and she had also said there are potential or pending investigations that involved me, and I said an investigation, per say, does not in itself create a conflict of interest as it may turn out positive or negative. “The Constitution entitled me to suspend her and there was nothing underhanded about it.” Mkhwebane said she would be challenging the suspension.  In response to other queries on Fraser’s opening a case, Ramaphosa said: “He has done what he has done, he has a right as any citizen has to report criminality if he believes there has been (any).