Premier Alan Winde is calling for Covid-19 restrictions to be lifted ahead of the United Rugby Championship game this Saturday in Cape Town. Winde said while he will be cheering the Stormers on at the championship final, he was concerned that the Cape Town stadium would not be operating at full capacity with the number of fans continues to be capped. “An event like this creates significant economic activity in our province. It is high time that we do away with all Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. He added: “These restrictions serve only to undermine our hospitality and tourism sectors and derail private sector-led job creation.” Over the last few weeks, Cape Town Stadium has been filled with rugby fans from all over, supporting the rugby championship. This Saturday, the championship finals between the Stormers and the Bulls will once again see crowds flock to watch the game live. However, due to Covid-19 restrictions, the venue is currently only allowed to sell tickets to 50% of its capacity. Cape Town stadium has the capacity to seat 55 000 people which means that the current sales are only limited to 27 500 people, Winde said. “I am reiterating my call to President (Cyril) Ramaphosa to convene an urgent President’s Coordinating Council (PCC) ahead of the United Rugby Championship final,” he said. He added: “I have made this call to the president, and will continue to do so because we can now safely and fully reopen our economy."  "This is because there has been a continued decoupling between Covid-19 infections and severe illness." MEC of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Anroux Marais echoed Winde’s said sports tourism was an important contributor to the local economy. “With large upcoming rugby matches, and particularly the upcoming Rugby World Cup sevens events, we must open our stadiums to full capacity,” she said. She added: “It is important not only for the recovery of the local economy but for our local people to feel a sense of connectivity and unity through sport.” Weekend Argus Keshia Africa