Cape Town - Local celebrities believe now is the perfect time to scrap mandatory mask-wearing. This comes after health minister Joe Phaahla proposed the move as the country sees a decline in Covid-19 cases. Cabinet is expected to make a decision soon regarding this. Radio presenter, motivational speaker and entrepreneur Lucia Dramat said: “It will be a breath of fresh air to be able to breathe without wearing a mask. I do feel that it has been a tough two years, emotionally and mentally. “I’ve definitely become so much more conscious of gems and spreading gems and those are things I never thought about before. “We went to birthday parties, people blew out the candles, you ate the cake and did not care, but now you don’t want to eat food that people are breathing over. “On the other side, it has also isolated us as you cannot see people smile and you could not hear people speak all the time,” she said. Singer and songwriter Keanu Harker said it will be a relief should face masks be scrapped. “I went to Namibia in March and their restriction on face masks was lifted, but yet there were people who still wore them as an extra precaution. In SA, we should still be cautious and aware of what is happening around us while having the freedom to either wear it or not. “I’m proud of the efforts and continued commitment of every South African citizen who’s been bringing their part and making sure we flatten the curve. I hope we can keep the momentum going by doing what we need to,” he said. Rapper Jerome Rex said: “In many social settings in Cape Town, face masks are practically already scrapped. I've been to hotels and other venues where there often isn't a mask in sight. Even if masks were no longer mandatory, I might still wear one if I believed the situation called for it. “Imagine having to travel and then being forced to cancel your plans because you've contracted Covid-19 somewhere? “Following restrictions and protocols is a legalistic way of us caring for one another. When entering someone's home for the first time, observing restrictions is another layer of care and respect that we can display. “I'd love to see Capetonians honour one another in this way, not just as a means of observing the law, but also out of a sense of community and love for our fellow humans,” he said. Weekend Argus