Cape Town - School holidays are nearly here and whether you love animal encounters, activities, challenges or shows, there will be no shortage of fun and memorable moments for kids at malls across Cape Town. Peter Pan will be on stage at the Canal Walk Theatre. The show runs from June 25 to July 17 with show times at 11am, 12.30pm and 2pm (no shows on Mondays). This year, the musical adaptation of James Matthew Barrie’s classic tale, Peter, Tinkerbell and Wendy Darling, along with Captain Hook and his faithful sidekick, Smee, will ferry audiences to Neverland to be amazed by all its wonders.  Make a date to escape to Neverland by booking through Webtickets or at the ticket box office at the venue. Pop through to Parow Centre if you are keen on taking part in a kids treasure challenge. Collect a treasure map at the Info Desk and follow the clues to find out which stores have the image of secret treasure and you could win a voucher worth R5 000 from the amazing Jolly Roger Pirate Boat. The competition runs from June 27 to July 17. Children can experience a world of fun at GrandWest Casino and Entertainment World where ice-skating, movies, ten-pin bowling, and a myriad arcade games will send them home exhausted, but happy. Another way to explore the ocean without getting wet this winter is a visit to the Two Oceans Aquarium. Here you can get a glimpse of life under Cape Town’s oceans and an introduction to the fascinating creatures that live in it.  You can meet giant sea turtles, a Nemo display of clownfish and waddling penguins to name a few. Visit the Touch Pool to get up close and personal with creatures and plants from the deep.  This all-weather venue is an ideal destination for families to enjoy, and young and old will have the opportunity to explore below the waterline and discover an intriguing world usually hidden from sight. Other family and child-friendly activities at the V&A Waterfront include: Playdate Superpark, an indoor activity park, which boasts a gigantic triple story 450sqm 3-dimensional maze, has two submarine escape rooms, a high line ropes course and a kiddie’s mini maze for the younger ones. For those that prefer to watch, indulge the amazing foods on offer or grab a cup of coffee all under one roof. Kids can be sure to unleash their individual creativity by playing, painting, sponging or spraying at Art Jamming at the V&A Waterfront.  If they are aged between 5 and 10 and are keen to get into the kitchen to learn to bake or cook, head over to the Makers Landing Demo Kitchen every Saturday and Sunday.  Weekend Argus