THOUSANDS of parents are expected to know this Friday whether their children, currently on waiting lists, will get placements for next year before schools close for the winter break.  On Friday, at midnight, the deadline for parents to choose a preferred school if their children had been accepted to more than one school, closed.  This is expected to free up at least 14 000 spaces for Grade 1 and 8 and alleviate the anxiety among parents who fear having children unplaced before the 2023 academic year. In January, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) scrambled to place more 3 500 pupils before the beginning of the academic year.  But even with the possibility of getting off the waiting list, some parents in the districts across the metro that are affected by high demand have raised concerns on the online system WCED uses. Henry Arends, who applied for his granddaughter to be enrolled into grade R, said all three schools rejected her. “Her application at Parkhurst, AZ Berman and Imperial Primary was unsuccessful. “Upon inquiring at Imperial, I learnt that the reason for the unsuccessful application was because my granddaughter does not have a sibling at the school. “This practice is unacceptable, biased and unconstitutional. Both my daughters attended Imperial and it's close to our home – literally a stone’s throw away.” Arends said he was angry. He woke up early on application day and worked all day to ensure everything was processed. “On the last day we were informed that none of her applications were successful (at) any of the three schools. She is now on the waiting list.  “Why do you create an online thing that is not being utilised properly? Although we understand that we are evolving with technology, its still frustrating.” Rowena Esau applied for a Grade 8 placement for her son at 10 schools, six of which are in Mitchells Plain where the family lives, only to be accepted at four schools that are far from home. An estimated R800 for transportation costs must be added every month.  Esau said she was baffled by the rejections as her son had been the top performing pupil in his grade.  “We couldn't believe that he wasn't accepted, but schools like Bellville Tech and (others) in Cape Town accepted him because of his grades. “This means my son must now travel, where he could just walk to school. This also means extra money needs to be given out, that we also now constantly have to worry about his safety. “I want him at a school close by, but I also don't want to hold up the process of others on the waiting list. This is a  messed up situation and needs to be looked at by the department,” she added.  Another mom who wanted to remain anonymous raised concerns that her son would be among the thousands of unplaced pupils for Grade 1 next year.  “It’s stressful because this messes up planning your budget (and) buying a school uniform. No wonder you get so many unplaced learners at the beginning of a school year, because the (confusion) begins when applications open already.” Education activist Hendrick Makaneta, called for the WCED to improve its online system to better streamline application.  “Obviously this will frustrate parents and learners, especially with the high rates of unplaced learners every year. It is a grave concern.” Makaneta said the only way the system could work was if it was monitored effectively. “To alleviate pressure, the department needs to look at how many learners get accepted more than once. This will always have an effect on the number of unplaced learners, because of space, it also affects the waiting list,” he added.  “Parents also have a role to play when it comes to choosing which school to send the child to should they be accepted at more than one, but ultimately the ball is in the department’s court. They are the ones who introduced the system and if its not working, an alternative way needs to be found.” The department’s spokesperson, Bronagh Hammond, said they were in the home-stretch of the application process.  “Some learners were accepted at more than one school, therefore, once confirmed and withdrawn, it frees up spaces for other learners,” she said. Hammond said at midnight on Friday an automated process would confirm accepted places as per the list provided in accordance with the order of preference.  “This will then free up the remaining spaces that have been withheld due to parents not confirming spaces. “Schools will then close for the winter break, where applications cannot be considered. It is thus important that schools contact as many parents as possible in the week,  so as to relieve other parents' stress and anxiety.” She said the department expected thousands of places to become available due to the processes above. “Over 14 000 spaces in Grade 1 and 8 are currently being ‘kept on hold’ by parents who have not yet selected their preferred school.” Hammond concluded by saying that some admission policies prioritised spaces for learners who have siblings at the school.