IT was Reed Markham who said the quality of a father can be seen in the goals, dreams, and aspirations he sets not only for himself but for his family. This rings true for Cape sportsmen Wayde van Niekerk and Clayton Blommetjies who are full-time family men before being internationally recognised sports players. Van Niekerk, an Olympic runner is a first-time dad to his son, Elijah. Wayde and his wife Chesney welcomed their baby boy into the world in November, a month after celebrating four years of marriage and eight years as a couple.  Van Niekerk said his favourite moments Elijah are the little glances he shares with both his parents and touching them when he wakes up in the morning. “I never expected something like that from a six-month-old baby. The first time I experienced it, it hit quite deep and I look forward to that in the mornings,” he said. “I love making him laugh and seeing how much he enjoys our presence,” he added. Since becoming a family of three,  Van Niekerk said he’s learned the value of appreciating the little things in life.  “My son, his health and seeing how he’s growing and life in general, has shown me that I’ve been so blessed. The Lord has spoiled me,” he said. While he’s only been a parent for the last few months, Van Niekerk said the most rewarding part is having the opportunity to build a great relationship with his son. “I’m hoping that I can develop into a good father and a good person in his life. I’m looking forward to seeing how we grow together as father and son, and I’d like to believe as friends too,” he said. His fondest memory that he shares with his dad, Wayne van Niekerk, was all the time they spent together. “I’ve been blessed with present, supportive parents and it’s something that I will always be grateful for,” he said. Something his dad taught him that he will never forget was to value his faith. “My dad has always been a god-fearing man, who led all of us closer to God. He did it by example and that was more than just advice, but guidance too,” he said. “I believe all his prayers and guidance is why we are where we are today,” he added. Van Niekerk said he is looking forward to his first Father’s Day as a dad. “I want us to show love and appreciation all year round but I am looking forward to seeing how it goes,” he added. Although he is a new dad, Van Niekerk’s advice to fathers is the message of love. “Spread love and make sure that the decisions you make are based on and rooted in love,” he said. Paarl-born rugby player for the Blitzboks, Clayton Blommetjies is father to eight-year-old Clay-Neesha. Blommetjies is engaged to Kristle Peterson. The Cheetahs’ wing has called Bloemfontein home for the last eight years but after the Currie Cup, Blommetjies will be joining the Stormers. Blommetjies said although he shares many fond memories with his daughter, his favourites are always the ones whether his daughter joined him on the filed.  “I remember her walking on the field with me before playing my 50th game for the Cheetahs, it was so special,” he said. The Paarl rugby player said he is extremely grateful for his family. “I would not be the person I am today without the love and support that they’ve given me,” he said. “Being able to provide for my child’s every need is the most rewarding part of being a father. I want to always be the best father I can be. “I love being able to support her with what she does and needs. I am her biggest supporter and motivator,” he added. When he was younger, Father’s Day was always spent going to church with his family and enjoying Sunday lunch together. His memories of his late father, Claude Blommetjies include the support showered on him.  “On and off the rugby field, he was always there. My fondest memory I have of us was when I was playing two Currie Cup finals and he supported me at the Toyota Stadium in Bloemfontein,” he said. “His advice to me was to always stay humble and put God first,” he added. Blommetjies said he is looking forward to spending Father’s Day with his daughter and fiancée. His advice to all fathers is to, “Always put your family first”. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa