The National Sea Rescue Institute along with police divers recover two bodies along the Atlantic coastline. Craig Lambinon, a spokesperson for the NSRI, said crew members along with police divers located and recovered two bodies adrift at sea in Hangklip near Kleinmond and Simon’s Town. The first body was recovered around 9.13am in Simon’s Town. Darren Zimmerman, NSRI Simon’s Town station commander, said the duty crew was activated after police reported that an eyewitness spotted a  body  adrift off-shore of Long Beach.  “The sea rescue craft Spirit of Surfski II was prepared to be launched and on police divers arriving at Simon’s Town NSRI rescue base, the sea rescue craft was launched accompanied by police divers,” he said.  “On arrival on the scene the body of an adult male was recovered by police divers and taken on board our sea rescue craft and brought to base.” Zimmerman said the man may have been a worker at local roadworks who  disappeared from his post in the early hours of the morning before being spotted in the surf line hours later.  Zimmerman said the body has been taken into the care of provincial health Forensic Pathology Services while police registered an inquest docket for investigation. And around 15 minutes later, some 120 kilometres away the NSRI Kleinmond was  activated after eyewitnesses reported a body off-shore Hangklip, between Gordons Bay and Kleinmond. Michael Markovina, NSRI Kleinmond training officer, said their rescue vehicle and the police responded while their sea rescue craft Jaytee III was prepared to be launched. “On arrival at the scene, following a search, the body of an adult male was located and recovered onto our sea rescue craft by police divers,” he explained. “The body of the deceased man was brought to the Hangklip slipway, at Maasbaai, and the body has been taken into the care of health Forensic Pathology Services.” Markovina said it was yet to be confirmed if the body belong to a man who went missing in the area over a week ago.