Cape Town - G4S Cash Solution has launched a national hunt for the killers of a security guard in Randfontein and is offering a R1 million reward for the successful arrest and conviction of the suspects. The incident took place just after 6pm at the Engen, Middelvlei Petrol Station on the R28 in Randfontein on Monday. The security guard, who cannot be publicly named, came under attack, and one of his alleged killers was caught on CCTV surveillance footage which has been made public. Sandra Sowray, for G4S Media communications, said: “G4S Cash Solutions, the largest cash management company in South Africa, is offering a reward of up to R1 million for credible, useful information leading to the successful arrest, prosecution and conviction of criminals who shot and killed a G4S security guard on Monday, June 20 at 6pm, during a CIT attack at the Engen Middlevlei filling station on the R28 in Randfontein. “One of the perpetrators was caught on camera.” Renso Smit, regional cluster director for G4S Southern Africa, said they were making a public appeal. “We are devastated at this tragic and senseless loss and have conveyed our deepest condolences and support to the family of the deceased. “We are making it a priority to ensure these criminals are held to account.” Sowray said G4S wrote to the Minister of Police and the national police commissioner to urgently convene a meeting with all stakeholders to address the continuing escalation of violence in cash-in-transit (CIT) attacks. Smit added there were too few convictions taking place with criminals in heists, giving them a playing field. “Cash-in-transit (CIT) and cross-pavement attacks are becoming more violent in nature. This is deeply concerning because it puts the lives of our people in danger. There are not enough prosecutions and convictions to deter these criminals, who are operating with impunity. “We are therefore calling on Crime Intelligence, SAPS, the Hawks, the National Prosecuting Authority and the Ministers who lead them to prioritise CIT crime and to re-establish and bolster the National CIT Task Team as a matter of urgency.” Sowray responded to Weekend Argus' queries whether the victim could be identified. “G4S’ policy is not to release the identity of its guards, to protect their and their family’s privacy.” Anyone with information is urged to contact: Ray Barlow on 083 324 3460 or Shaun Maleo on 083 750 4042 from G4S Cash Solutions. This information can be shared anonymously or on the record. Weekend Argus