Cape Town - The 75-year-old daughter of ANC activist and political prisoner James Booi has waited six decades to finally find the remains of her beloved father.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A week ago, the Booi family, who now live in Khayelitsha, were present at the formal public exhumation of Booi’s remains, held in Zamdela, Sasolburg. The National Prosecuting Authority’s Missing Persons Task Team was instrumental in solving the decades-old cold case. The task team, formed on the recommendation of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, is tasked with finding people who went missing during political violence between 1960 and 1994. They said that in the past 17 years, 170 people who went missing during the political instability between 1960 and 1994 were positively identified thanks to the task team. Booi had been sentenced to prison on Robben Island and in 1966 was transferred to Groenpunt prison in the Free State and died in March 1966. Now, 56 years later, Booi’s daughter, Martha Booi, and his grandson, Zola Booi, 33, and two other relatives were present during the exhumation. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The family said Martha had been searching for her father’s remains for decades and finally had a form of closure and healing. Bulelwa Makeke, head of communications for the NPA, invited the media to the public exhumation last week. “There are no potential prosecutions related to this matter. “Mr James Booi from Gqeberha was one of hundreds of people who were arrested in the early 1960s after the banning of the African National Congress (ANC) and Pan Africanist Congress (PAC). “Mr Booi was an ANC member and was sentenced to a term of imprisonment on Robben Island. In January 1966, he was transferred from Robben Island to Groenpunt prison in the Free State, where he almost immediately died on March 15, 1966. “Although they heard that he had died, his family never knew what had happened to his body. They have searched for decades to find him. “The MPTT conducted investigations and was able to locate an unmarked pauper’s grave in Zamdela cemetery in Sasolburg where Booi had been buried. “The exhumation by the MTPP was conducted in partnership with the Metsimaholo Local Municipality, the Eastern Cape Department of Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture (DSRAC), and Robben Island Museum (RIM).” Madeleine Fullard, who leads the task team, confirmed Booi’s remains will be examined. “The remains will undergo a brief forensic examination prior to their return to the family for reburial.” Booi’s grandson, Zola, said the process had been both emotional and significant. His mother had never given up hope of finding her father. “It was very emotional and it brought great relief to receive his remains,” he said. “It has been a long journey for us, especially for my mother. There was a meeting held during the early 2000s and my mother interrupted that meeting, asking questions about what happened to my grandfather’s remains. “My mother has always wanted to break the generational curse as a lot of the men in our family died at a young age.” Weekend Argus