TWO Cape Town families say their grief has been prolonged after funeral service companies failed to deliver on what was promised. The Langisa and Van der Vindt families say they experienced botched funeral services from two different firms. Warrick Langisa, 58, said his mother, Maria Caroline Langisa, died in 2018. But for three years he has tried to get a tombstone company to honour its commitment. In 2019, the family approached M&Y Tombstones and Granite Works. Langisa said he paid the company R8 100 for a granite top, and custom engravings for the tombstone, but received an incomplete product. “To them this might be another grave but to me it’s my mother’s grave and I’m not going to accept this. “My mother was a very organised person, to the point of her leaving instructions on how to do everything. She knew what she wanted and it was not this. “Firstly there was no photo; only the topside was granite. It wasn’t even plastered.” Langisa said the headstone was not the one he ordered. “Since 2019 I have been trying to get them to fix it and every time they tell me next week. It’s been three years now and still nothing has been done.” Langisa said in many messages between him and the company, he explained what he expected.  After many excuses, Langisa said he had no other option than to expose the company and warn others. “I just don’t want anyone to fall into a trap like this.” Weekend Argus  had also tried contacting the company. A receptionist assured the newspaper that everything had been fixed in Langisa’s matter. But Langisa rejected this as a lie.  After many failed attempts, the receptionist answered again on Thursday and before even explaining, said she’d find out and dropped the call. Neither was there a response to emails sent. Langisa said the exact same thing had been happening to him and he hoped that people would be cautious about who they trust. In Bridgetown, the Van der Vindt family has also been struggling to get a funeral policy company to ­honour a claim. Fianca van der Vindt, 38, said her mother, Brenda Moses, had joined the Precision Group Scheme Administration, previously known as AA funeral service and West-Pro, in 2018 as a funeral policy holder. Van der Vindt said when her mother became ill, she took over the payments and made sure to pay in advance. body.copy...: But the family said they had not received a cent of the R10 000 policy from the Precision Group Scheme Administration. “My mother did not miss a payment. The only time there wasn’t a payment was when their collectors did not come out. However, we made it our mission to contact them, we still weren’t in arrears because we always paid months in advance.” Van der Vindt said her mother died in March 2021 and the payments were still made while they waited for the policy to be paid out. The books were also still paid up until June 2021. “When it came time to pay-out, there were tons of excuses and every time I dealt with someone different. “Then the director told me they would pay me out in two parts, R5 000 in June 2021 and R5 000 the next month, but up until today I have received nothing.” Van der Vindt said the money wasn’t an issue, but the company’s dishonesty was. “They just had to stick to their word. I mean how many other people fell victim to this? People who, like my mother, were pensioners? People who do not know their rights? “Her send-off was beautiful, but what about other people who depend on that money for the funeral food and cars? “I even tried to take this up with the ombudsman. I made phone calls, tried every avenue; I basically followed the proper procedures, but still didn’t get answers.” Van der Vindt said this had also made their grieving even harder. A funeral undertaker who spoke to Weekend Argus on the basis of anonymity said he was made aware of the same company by a few of his clients. “Some of them told me the same story about West-Pro – they paid it and never got paid out. “I just think it’s so unfair for these people, because they trusted the company with the expectation to get paid out in one of the most vulnerable times of their lives.” Attempts to communicate with West-Pro were unsuccessful. The Office for the Ombud for Financial Service Providers is investigating the matter. Weekend Argus had also tried contacting the company. A receptionist assured the newspaper that everything had been fixed in Langisa’s matter.  But, Langisa rejects this as a lie. After many failed attempts, the receptionist answered again on Thursday and before even explaining, said she’d find out and dropped the call. Neither was there a response to emails sent. Langisa said the exact same thing had been happening to him and he hoped that people would be cautious about who the trust. In Bridgetown, the Van der Vindt family has also been struggling to get a funeral policy company to honour a claim. Fianca van der Vindt, 38, said her mother, Brenda Moses, had joined the Precision Group Scheme Administration previously known as AA funeral service and West-Pro in 2018 as a funeral policy holder. Van der Vindt said when her mother became ill, she took over the payments and made sure to pay in advance. But the family has not receive a cent of the R10 000 policy from the Precision Group Scheme Administration . “My mother did not miss a payment. The only time there wasn't a payment was when their collectors did not come out. However, we made it our mission to contact them, we still weren't in arrears because we always paid months in advance.” Van der Vindt said in March 2021 her mother died and the payments were still made while they waited for the policy to be paid out. The books were also still paid up until June 2021. “When it came time to pay-out, there were tons of excuses and every time I dealt with someone different. “Then the director told me they would pay me out in two parts, R5 000 in June 2021 and R5 000 the next month, but up until today I have received nothing.” Van der Vindt added that although the money wasn't an issue, the company’s dishonesty was. “They just had to stick to their word. I mean how many other people fell victim to this? People who, like my mother, were pensioners?  People who do not know their rights? “Her send-off was beautiful, but what about other people who depend on that money for the funeral food and cars? “I even tried to take this up with the ombudsman, went to their offices which were not located there anymore. I made phone calls, tried every avenue; I basically followed the proper procedures, but still didn't get answers.” Van der Vindt said this had also made their grieving even harder.  A funeral undertaker who spoke to Weekend Argus on basis of anonymity said he was made aware of the same company by a few of his clients. “Some of them  told me the same story about West-Pro – they paid it and never got paid out. “I just think it's so unfair  for these people, because they trusted the company with the expectation to get paid out in one of the most vulnerable times of their lives.” Attempts to reach West-Pro was unsuccessful.  The office for Ombud for Financial Service Providers is still investigating the matter.