Cape Town - Athlone police are on the hunt for three suspects and a white Toyota Quantum that was used in the robbery of the local post office in Athlone on Friday. The unknown gunmen entered the premises of the Athlone post office, disarmed the security guard and demanded the money held in the safe. Athlone police spokesperson Sergeant Zita Norman said no shots were fired and no injury was reported. “They came into the post office and demanded that the safe be opened, which was opened by the cashier. “A total amount of R130 000 was stolen. No shots were fired and no one was injured. The security guard on duty was disarmed of his 9mm firearm with 15 rounds of bullets. The unknown men then sped off in a white quantum with an unknown registration number,” she said. Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson, Sharon Classen said as much as they were disappointed but they were not shocked as the post office is located in a quiet place. “The social grant pensioners who get their money there. It was robbed before. If it gets closed it will be difficult for the old people to collect their money. There is a poor service delivery by the police because they need to be visible in that area. It is a quiet place and people can attack any time,” she said. A string of other robberies targeting post offices have taken place across Cape Town. Police reported that they were investigating a case of business robbery after suspects robbed the Belhar post office at gunpoint in April. In February the Durbanville post office was robbed of R50 000 by five suspects. Police reported that the suspects entered through the front door, threatened staff and demanded money. In other part of the province, police arrested suspects who held staff at gunpoint at the De Doorns post office, and fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash in a VW Golf. One of the suspects later died when their car overturned in Paarl. That same month, police also arrested four men aged between 24 and 35 after staff at the Caledon post office were held up before robbers fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of money. Anyone with information can contact Athlone police on 021-6979238.