More than 10 000 people were raped in South Africa in the first three months of this year, a daunting figure that only fuels a Cape Town  survivor’s mission to help those affected by gender-based violence. On Friday, Minister of Police Bheki Cele released crime statistics for the fourth quarter, which revealed that sexual offences recorded a 13.7% increase between January and March. Delft police station was among the top three stations to record the highest incidents of rape in this period.  For 19-year-old Azile, who only wants her first name mentioned, changing the mindset of rape survivors from victims to victors is a project to which she is dedicated to.  Azile works as an anti-rape activist and intern at the human rights non-profit The Justice Desk and is determined to play a part in ending GBV. The 'victim to victor' message is one Azile, who was raped, shares to empower girls and women. “To change your mindset from victim to victor is a process of shifting your beliefs, your truth, and your perspective,” she said. She added: “It is a journey that requires intention, commitment to yourself and a desire for transformation. I am a victim. I want to do something to end this,” she said. “I went through a bad experience, and I do not want anyone else to go through what I went through,” she added. In her work as an activist, she hopes to help make South Africa a safe space for women. “I hope that we can end gender-based violence and make South Africa rape-free. Everyone should be able to wear what they want to wear and be comfortable in their own country,” she said. When asked about the challenges rape survivors face in South Africa, Azile said the justice system almost always failed survivors. “Survivors have to face their perpetrators every day and live in fear because the legal system fails (in) this country,” she said. She added: “The government needs to start making sure that survivors get justice by all means necessary. We need stronger laws that ensure perpetrators get what they deserve. “They should go to jail for what they did. Every survivor needs to know that justice was served so that they can start to feel better about the situation. She added: “Walking around and seeing your perpetrator walk around freely gets in your heart and opens the wound, all over again.” Being a young person in South Africa is challenging, Azile said. “We are constantly pushed aside as if our opinion doesn’t matter. During youth month, we have the chance to express ourselves and speak our mind,” she said. Azile said her message to other rape survivors was to remember that their experience does not change who they are. “I want them to remember that it doesn’t end here. They are powerful, they are worthy, and that they have the strength to survive this,” she said. “I would like to let them know that it is not their fault that this happened to them. They should know that they are powerful and should stand up and shine like the diamonds they are,” she added. Weekend Argus  Keshia Africa