Cape Town - Two hundred children from Bo-Kaap have been equipped with skills for life on how to use waste to improve their lifestyle and to be friendly to the environment and ecosystem. Zeenat Isaacs, who runs an NPO called Supporting Mentorship Through Art (SM-ART),  is a facilitator project manager and researcher and this June she carried out a flagship workshop for 200 pupils at St Paul’s Primary School in Bo-Kaap.  The theme, which is reduce, reuse and recycle, will also end off with at a City of Cape Town’s Waste Wise Programme event held on June 23 at Sea Point Civic. Isaacs, who was assisted by teacher Sipho Masha, taught children how to become aware of their environment and educated them about recycling. Isaacs said children were encouraged to create items such as plant pots and even clothing using recycled materials. “Our motto was to reuse and recycle,” she said. “For example, they were taught how to make a plant pot using recycled materials and create this by making a sculpture and making the soil out of recycled materials and waste. “At the event next week, a fashion show will also take place and we showed them how they can use recycled materials to make clothing. “The idea was to teach them skills which they could take back to their community and all the workshops were based on the use of the City of Cape Town’s SM-ART handbook.” Masha said ironically the workshop was perfect for a practical lesson about the Earth and the environment while his Grade 7s were being educated about the structure of the Earth during this term’s geography lessons. “We planned to establish an eco-school project at our school to educate and create an environmental awareness with our learners, both theoretically and practically,” said Masha. “A workshop was held with all Grade 6 and 7 learners at the  start and eventually it included grades 4 and 5. “The workshop was excellent and learners participated through drama and music. “They learnt about eco bricks and are currently creating a design for preparations for the event to be held next week. “June is Ocean Month, as such we are aligning the event with the month, reduce, reuse, and recycle Weekend Argus