Community leaders in Lwandle, Strand, have called for increased policing  after two   Somali businessmen were shot dead by suspected extortionists. This brought the number of Somalis shot by suspected extortionists to six in a fortnight after two were gunned down in Langa last Monday. Police said two of the victims, aged between 38 and 32, were shot and killed in Nomzamo on Friday evening just hours after Police Minister Bheki revealed that 6 083 people had been murdered in South Africa during the first three months of the year. Police Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said the two others, between the ages of 39 and 33, were taken to hospital. No one had been arrested yet. The chairperson of the Community Police Forum in Lwandle, Siyabonga Macaula, said according to residents three men burst into a shop called Thandabantu on the corner of Michael and Lonja streets, where they opened fire. Macaula said although the motive was not known yet, attacks on shops owned by foreigners were largely associated with extortion. “I can’t think of anything else. Even other community leaders do not rule out extortion, as attacks on Somali businesses are motivated by it,” he said.  Macaula said a community imbizo was held in Lwandle in May to discuss the rise in crime. At the meeting residents raised concerns that the area was fast gaining the reputation of being a murder hotspot, like Khayelitsha and Nyanga. “They appealed for more police resources to deal with the crime.” Macaula said despite repeated calls on communities to share information with the police on these incidents, they were “terrified to do so”. Councillor Xolani Diniso said residents appealed for the establishment of a fully-fledged police station and the deployment of more police officers and vehicles. Diniso said the current number of police and vehicles was not enough to keep up with the increasing population and the influx of people from other townships.  He said figures shared by the station commander at a recent meeting also showed a sharp rise in murder cases. “Although we do not know what has caused the rise, there’s been speculation that the extortion that has been taking place in areas such as Khayelitsha has now spread to Strand.” Diniso said the incident did not appear to be a “normal” robbery but could be linked to extortion.  Somali Community Board of South Africa chairperson Abdirizak Ali Osman was baffled because nothing had been stolen from the crime scene. We are still trying to find out the motive for the murders but it does not appear to be related to robbery,” said Osman. He described the incident as tragic and said the association was working with the police to try to piece together the circumstances of the killings. “It’s a tragedy that Somali businesspeople are killed every year,” Osman said. “Although these incidents take place across the country, the majority of the incidents happen in Cape Town and are related to extortion. When people refuse to pay the money to the gangs they get killed.” Osman said the deceased, whose identities would not be revealed yet, were expected to be buried on Saturday. Lwandle police station recorded an 81% increase in murders and made it to the top 30 stations with the most murder cases.