ONE in three people surveyed across 27 countries listed inflation as the top issue plaguing their nation.  That is according to results of the monthly ‘What Worries the World’ survey  by market research company, Ipsosn The company conducted the online study in several countries including South Africa, Australia, Canada, Germany and Hungary. In the 10th month in a row,  inflation remained a key concern for participants. "A global average of one in three, or 34%, say inflation is one of the top issues affecting their country, up two points from the previous survey," said the company. The survey explores what the public thinks are the most important social and political issues, drawing on ten years of data to place the latest scores in context. Interviews for the latest wave were conducted from April 22 to May 6. Some of the top five concerns included poverty, unemployment, crime and violence and political corruption. "Concern over the pandemic continues to decline, as the coronavirus stays at eighth position. This is the third month in a row that it places outside the top five concerns.“ The study found that Japan is the only country where Covid-19 was the top concern, compared to 12 countries in January. Ipsos Knowledge Director for Sub-Saharan Africa,  Mari Harris said continuous efforts by the Reserve Bank and a conservative fiscal and monetary policy had helped to keep inflation within the range of 4%-6%. "However, with many countries in the world and our most important trading partners experiencing high inflation it is possible that inflation in South Africa will also be on the incline later this year," said Harris. In response to the rising fuel and food prices, some residents told the Weekend Argus last week they found it hard to make decisions on what necessities to buy and what to leave out.  Most said prices of paraffin, bread, cooking oil, even chicken had risen to an extent that they no longer afforded them.  Last month the South African Reserve Bank hiked the repo rate by 50 basis points, the fourth consecutive rate hike, in an effort to combat rising inflation. According the study South Africans also wanted other important issues to be addressed. "As it has been for many years, we top the list in terms of saying that unemployment and jobs are very important issues. As far as this aspect is concerned, at 66% South Africa is far ahead of the global country average of 27%," said Harris. Of the countries surveyed, two thirds said that things in their country were on the wrong track, while 36% felt they were  heading in the right direction. South Africa came in fourth position behind Peru, Argentina and Poland on the "wrong track" score. South Africa was also in the bottom half of the table regarding economic performance, with 77% of respondents saying the economy was bad. Ipsos believed that the economic score influenced the respondents' opinions about the direction of the country as well as the concerns about unemployment and job creation.