Cape Town - The family of murdered driver Abongile Mafalala were brought to tears in court when the gruesome details of his death were presented.  The family arrived back in Cape Town following the funeral in Tsomo, Eastern Cape, and rushed to the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court where the accused were appearing. Mafalala was killed during a mob attack when he was falsely accused of being a kidnapper. Zharnay Johnson, Antonio Bailey, Ivan Ruiters, Nathan Leeman, Yuven Nawat, Bradley Murphy, Carlton Williams and Ashwin Tifflon were joined by Remano Witbooi, Cheslyn Spanenberg and a 15-year-old minor at the court this morning.  They are all charged with the murder of e-hailing driver, Abongile Mafalala, robbery with aggravating circumstances and malicious damage to property.  The court heard that a dog was set on Mafalala to bite him while a spade was used to hit him. The case was heard in camera as a15-year-old a minor is involved. Mafalala’s family was also hurt by the fact that those arrested over the mob attack had supporters in and outside the courtroom. The deceased’s sister, Bongiwe, said the gruesome details have brought more pain to them while they were trying to get through the death of Abongile. “I am hurt,” she cried. “I am hurting, we just buried Abongile and now we had to hear how he died. Someone set a dog on him and he was beaten with a spade.” Abongile’s girlfriend, Zandile Maweza, said the family are now tired of hearing how Abongile died.  “We want justice,” she said. “Being told what happened in Parkwood is hurting us. Everyone was crying today because we are hurting.” The case was postponed to June 23 for a formal bail application. “The minor was released into the care of his guardians,” said NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. The Weekend Argus reported at the weekend that highly-placed sources and a senior police officer have confirmed a CCTV operator in Grassy Park saw the Parkwood mob attack the murdered Bolt driver but left her station to run errands. The City of Cape Town said it would investigate the allegations. The case also prompted the public to demand answers from the family of Shireen Essop, 32, who was abducted and held hostage in Khayelitsha.  Essop was spotted in Govan Mbeki Road on Friday at midnight after she was dumped on the side of the road by her alleged kidnappers. She was last seen on May 23, driving down Weltevreden Road in a white Toyota. Her car was recovered in Philippi hours later but there was no sign of her. The Klipfontein Mission Station Neighbourhood Watch found a shivering and distraught Essop trying to seek help from the police who were buying coffee at the BP petrol station. The family of Essop have not yet put out the details of what exactly happened and there are reports that a ransom was paid for her freedom.  The public on social media wants the family to confirm whether Essop was kidnapped as a man was killed in Parkwood over fake kidnapping allegations. Weekend Argus