Cape Town - The new inquest into the death of anti-apartheid activist Imam Haron will determine whether he died as a result of falling down a flight of stairs or was murdered in police detention in 1969. The National Director of Public Prosecutions, Shamila Batohi, made the announcement earlier this week that Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola had reopened the inquest. Batohi said she had been approached by the Director of Public Prosecutions in the Western Cape, Nicolette Bell. Bell had been working with the Haron family and  recommended to Lamola for the inquest to be reopened. The new inquest will relook at the inquiry into the cause of Haron’s death. The first inquest was held in 1970. The NPA’s Eric Ntabazalila said Haron had spread the word of anti-apartheid consciousness: “Imam Haron was a father of three who was involved in a general strike in response to South Africa’s decision to leave the Commonwealth and promulgate a new Republican Constitution. “It was during this period that he discovered that police informers were planted in his congregation at Al-Jamia Mosque in Claremont. “In his sermons he emphasised brotherhood in Islam and urged Muslims to support black South Africans in their quest and fight against the racist apartheid regime.” He said the inquiry would determine whether he had died as a result of injuries sustained after falling down a flight of stairs or if he was murdered. “The NPA welcomes the appointment of a Western Cape High Court judge to preside over a reopened inquest into the death of Imam Abdullah Haron, who died in police detention on 27 September 1969. “This development follows a successful request by the NPA to the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Ronald Lamola, to reopen the inquest to determine whether Imam Haron indeed died as a result of falling down a flight of stone stairs, thereby causing subsequent health complications that led to his death, or was he murdered and by whom, how and when were the several notable injuries inflicted on his body.” Haron was arrested on May 24, 1969, and was detained in Cape Town under the provision of section 6 of the Terrorism Act of 1967. Haron was interrogated by members of the notorious security branch of the South African Police Force at Caledon Square police station and later transferred to Maitland police station. He was found dead inside his cell at Maitland police station after being in detention for 123 days. Ntabazalila said the first inquest had been done in 1970 and found that the cause of death was due to a disturbance of blood clotting and blood circulation as a result of trauma and narrowing of the coronary artery. “An inquest was held on February 18, 1970, and concluded with a finding on 10 March 1970. It was found that he slipped on a flight of stairs at Caledon Square police station and was taken to Maitland Police Station. “The inquest overseen by Magistrate JSP Kuhn, who ruled that the likely cause of death was a ‘myocardial ischaemia’, a likely contributing cause being a disturbance of blood clotting mechanism and blood circulating due, in part, to trauma superimposed on a severe narrowing of the coronary artery. “Kuhn concluded that ‘a substantial part of the said trauma was caused by an accidental fall down a flight of stone stairs. On the available evidence I am unable to determine how the balance thereof was caused’.” Judge Thulare, Western Cape director of public prosecutions, was welcomed and advocate Nicolette Bell said the NPA has taken up afresh the plight of the families of the victims of apartheid atrocities. “To this end many strides have been made in building capacity in the NPA to ensure that families of apartheid-era victims find closure and that history will reflect a more accurate truth of the realities endured by so many during those years,” Bell said. “The successful application to have the 1970 inquest of the late Imam Haron reopened with the recent allocation, by the Judge President of the Western Cape High Court, of a judge to preside over the proceedings is what the organisation believes is a small victory on the road towards the truth, which we can only trust would inspire the families with hope and comfort that they have not been forgotten,” she said. Ntabazalila said: “The NPA leadership is committed to holding accountable those who are responsible for these crimes. The establishment of a dedicated capacity that is managed at the national office with representatives at the DPP offices, supports our undertaking to prioritise these cases.” Weekend Argus