THE family of  e-hailing driver Abongile Mafalala  who was killed by vigilantes after fake news spread through the community say they are not ready to forgive those responsible for his death.  Yesterday relatives of the 31-year-old gathered for the first time to discuss funeral arrangements after Mafalala was beaten and torched to death in Parkwood on Tuesday.  Relatives told Weekend Argus they were robbed of a kind and gentle man who was the family’s breadwinner.  His sister Khuselwa Mafalala, 35, said she was not yet ready to forgive those responsible as the residents in Parkwood were expected to host a vigil for the murdered man. Parkwood’s broader community tried to extend an apology and today, the community is expected to hold a vigil to show their respect to the family and pass on their condolences.  “I just want those responsible to pay for what they did. As you can imagine it’s difficult to forgive, how can I forgive when I will never be able to forget? I don’t also want to go to that area because I don’t trust those people, so I won’t risk my life. “He was a loving guy, one who truly gave of himself. He cared for me and my four children. He was the breadwinner, now we have no-one to depend on,” said Khuselwa. His cousin Gcinumzi Mafalala, 43, said he heard about the incident over radio news reports, but could not have imagined it was his relative. “Abongile was gentle, kind, loving, he had visions and dreams. He wasn’t a violent person, he would not even kill a fly, so even when I heard it was an Avanza it didn’t strike me,” he said. Gcinumzi said Mafalala who worked as a driver for two years just wanted to provide for his family. “He was the glue that kept the family together after his parents died. He had the role as a father because he was the only male left of his siblings. When he started to work he made sure to always provide. “His (goal) was to build a house for the family, so he didn’t mind going into the areas where other drivers chose not to, because he was determined to always give his best for those he loved.” Gcinumzi said he was heartbroken by reports of how his cousin cried out for help in his final moments - help that never arrived.  “I wish I was there to help him. I wish I could tell him how sorry I am, I would’ve protected him. I wish I could tell him how much we love him.” Gcinumzi said Mafalala’s remains were so unrecognisable that they now have to wait for DNA results to confirm his identify before the funeral can commence in the Eastern Cape this coming Saturday. Mafalala was attacked after fake messages made the rounds that he was involved in the alleged kidnapping of two children in the area. However, Grassy Park station commander Colonel Dawood Laing confirmed to Weekend Argus that Mafalala was instead a victim of a crime after two suspected gang members attempted to rob him and cried wolf when he resisted.  A Parkwood resident said the backyard dweller’s association decided to hold the vigil for Mafalala. “We called on our community leaders to join because what happened was unnecessary. He didn’t deserve that and even though arrests (were) made that wont bring back Abongile. Just because of those few people our community will forever be painted with the same brush,” said a member of the association.  Sedieqa Ceres, 54, whose son Tashrique Kapp was also murdered in Parkwood seven years ago said she would understand if Mafalala’s family did not forgive the community. Ceres said her son was killed at age 24 because he also stood up for himself as a gay man. “I don’t agree with what they did. I don’t also believe that they did enough to protect him, because if I was there I would throw myself on top of him, just so that his family does not feel the same pain I did when my son was beaten with a broom and stabbed.” “He was innocent, just like Abongile and when I saw him laying in a pool of his own blood it opened up wounds. I’m attending the vigil to say sorry to the family that we didnt do enough, that we failed this young man.” According to a source close the case, 39 people have so far been taken in for question in connection with Mafalala’s murder.  The suspects, once charged, will appear in Wynberg magistrate court on Monday. The source further added that they are working closely with the court to make sure that successful convictions are reached. “We will not let this one slide and it won’t become another statistic.”