A young, all-male cast shifts the narrative in a new Cape Town play that shines the spotlight on men’s response to gender-based violence. Vloeibare Moed is a production that was inspired by the events that took place in the wake of the murder of Uyinene Mrwetyana in 2019. The show is centred on four university students whose lives are in turmoil after one of them becomes the main suspect in a GBV-related crime committed on campus. The four characters are played by actors Lyle October, 22, Joshua Vraagom, 20, Marunzo Thomas, 21, and Jaydon Williams, 24. October makes his debut, while the others have starred  in local productions such as Noem My Skollie, Arendsvlei, Sara se Geheim and The Kingdom. Enrico Hartzenberg, 26, said he was inspired to write Vloeibare Moed while he was still studying drama at UCT when Uyinene was killed. “I always channel my hurt onto paper. I started to write what I experienced and later finished the script (during) lockdown,” he said. “I remember Graça Machel saying we need to interrogate where these things stem from. I took it upon myself as a writer to interrogate what happens in my community and the conversations I hear around me,” he added. Vloeibare Moed directly translates to “fluid courage”, but Hartzenberg said the play has to do with how one’s path could take shape. “The path we are on can give us the courage we need in life. We all have our paths. Each of the four characters comes from different environments and walks different paths,” he said. Hartzenberg said he chose an all-male cast because he wanted to shift the narrative. “Men are the main perpetrators of gender-based violence. Having four guys telling the story was intentional. I want to show what happens on the other side when a victim shares their story,” he said. “This shows us interrogating what males are doing about it and sharing the conversations that they’re having.” October said whenever a victim opens up about their experience, all men are responsible, even if they are not the perpetrator. “It’s all men. Even if it’s not us that’s responsible, we might know the person that is.” Williams said the story made him reflect on his own life. “The story the characters struggle with is one that many people struggle with in real life too.” Thomas echoed Williams’s thoughts, adding that he believed the audience would walk away from the play with something in mind. “The subject matter is very sensitive, but I think that the way we’re trying to convey how important it is to take accountability will impact someone,” he said. Vraagom added: “There are men that are on the side of women in this conversation. We agree that all men are trash. We want to interrogate why men are doing what they do.” When asked if the cast members had experienced GBV in their lives, Vraagom said very few South Africans have not been effected by this epidemic. “Looking them in the eye as they relay these stories is heartbreaking. I felt their pain through their words,” he said. Williams added: “It makes me feel defenceless hearing what women close to us have experienced. The show made us look at the conversations we have as guys, what kind of jokes we make.” SAPS reported that rape in the country increased by 13.7% to 10 818 cases during the first three months of 2022. Vraagom said he felt ashamed when he heard the rape statistics in South Africa. “The main perpetrators are men. All of us are responsible for what happens,” he said. October added: “If it scares us as men, I can’t even imagine what women go through in this country. As men, we need to hold our friends accountable. If men can’t escape, how must women escape this in their lives?” Williams echoed October’s sentiments, stating that change comes through accountability. “It comes through transparency. We need to look at who we’re hanging out with. Check yourself and check your friends,” he said. Vraagom added: “Accountability means correcting your friends at the moment that they say or do something wrong and reminding them about it in future.” Vloeibare Moed is showcasing at the Artscape Theatre from June 8 to June 18. Tickets are R80 and are available on Computicket. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa