A GOOD councillor in Stellenbosch Municipality proudly wears two hats – a primary school teacher by day and a politician when she is off the school’s clock.  Robin Hendrickse, 32, was among the young and eager group of new councillors who were sworn in after last year’s local government elections and said she was on a mission to make “Stellies great again”.  Last year was the first time the GOOD party participated in municipal elections and was able to obtain seats in key municipalities across the Western Cape.  The party gained three seats in the DA-run Stellenbosch Municipality after garnering more than 5 000 votes, beating  the EFF, FF+ and ACDP.  Speaking to Weekend Argus on what it means to be a young person in politics, Hendrickse said she got involved as a way of giving back to the community that raised her and she wanted to play her part in shaping the town.  A GOOD party PR councillor, Hendrickse said she stumbled into politics thinking she was attending a gym class.  “I received a call from a friend asking me to attend a GOOD meeting.  “I thought it was a gym session, I had no idea what or who GOOD was but thought they want to turn me into good shape,” she explained. When she arrived at the meeting she was shocked to see everyone dressed in a suit and tie.  “I was dressed in my gym wear and everyone just stared at me,” she said.  “There and then I was elected branch chair of ward 17 and I am now a PR councillor for GOOD in the Stellenbosch council.” Hendrickse, who is a Grade R teacher, said since her election, she entered the political arena to show up and break the stereotype that once elected, a councillor disappears until the next election.  She said she had made it her “ultimate mission” to address the inequalities that haunted the town. “I want to make a difference; I want to create a future for the youth,” she said.  “My position is quite influential, and I want to exploit that in order to make a difference.” The mother-of-one, whose grandmother died earlier this week, said her mother and grandma were her rock.  “My mother and gran were very devoted people and that is where I got my grit and tenacity from. “They made me the strong and independent woman I am today,” said Hendrickse, who was head girl in her matric year.  “From grade 10 to grade 12, I was honoured to represent our school at the Western Cape Government's Youth Parliament,” she said.  “During my matric year, I established a ‘girls club’ which focused on the emotional well-being of teenage girls.” After matriculating, Hendrickse said she was forced to take a gap year because of a malignant lump in her breast which was subsequently removed surgically. “In 2009 I went back to school to study and enrolled into a three-year course after which I went straight into teaching and landed a job at Cloetesville Primary School,” she said.  She said she is pursing a degree in theology.