Cape Town - Mitchells Plain singer Jodi Jantjies has gone from being afraid of using words because of a speech impediment to being recognised in the music industry.  Jantjies has been nominated for her first SA Music Award (Sama) in the category of Beste Kontemporêre Musiek Album for her debut album, “Woorde”. The 21-year-old is delighted to receive her first Sama nomination. Jantjies, who has been stuttering for most of her life, said: “It is a huge achievement (to be nominated). I’ve always had a little dream about being mentioned amongst the big names in the industry, I just didn’t expect it to happen this soon.” “Woorde” was released last year October and covers an array of genres. “It’s representative of myself as a woman, a coloured in terms of culture, a South African … and all the things that make me. “Everything that has influenced me and has curated this version of myself. It’s also an ode to my journey. As someone who was afraid of using her words, because of my speech impediment, I embraced it and created something beautiful from fear,” said Jantjies. The final-year BA student at UWC is an admirer of Karen Zoid, who featured on her first single, “Gee My Die Woorde”, from the album. “It was a dream come true working with Karen. I was literally obsessed with her in high school. The day I released my single with her, my friends reminded me how I told them that I’d one day write a song with Karen. The song is about empowerment, and it is definitely my journey with my speech impediment that inspired it,” she said. Her journey in the music industry started in 2016 when she auditioned for the ATKV-Crescendo (talent development project) panel and has grown into one of South Africa’s rising talents. “It took a whole lot of hard work, dedication, perseverance, prayer and faith (to be where I am today). I am nothing without my mother’s prayers and I am nothing without God nudging me all the way, with little reminders that I am on the right track,” she added. ATKV-Crescendo project organiser Morné van Staden said: “Her album being nominated for Sama is a huge blessing for us. The album consists of songs written and composed by Jodi and produced by our in-house team. “We are immensely proud of Jodi’s progress and how she has grown over the last six years since we discovered her,” he said. Weekend Argus