CAPE TOWN - A man has been convicted for instructing the murder of his wife after he hired two men who were to participate in a staged robbery at their home and promised R30 000. Thabo Leihlobi was convicted for the murder of his wife Matumelo Lehloibi - who was strangled to death - while his co-accused, Kwenamore Thabang, was acquitted of a murder charge but convicted for assault for the incident on October 10 2019 at the Leihlobi residence in Soweto. Charges against a third accused, Thabo Sibisi, were withdrawn after he turned state witness in the matter heard at the Gauteng High Court.  Sibisi was approached by Leihlobi who then asked him to recruit another person to carry out the staged robbery and he then recruited his cousin, Thabang. State witness Sibisi testified that he and Thabang are cousins but he also knew Leihlobi as they met two weeks prior to the incident. He testified that Leihlobi approached him and hired him to do a job at his place. “Leihlobi told him that he worked at a company who trusted him to do cash deposits on their behalf. He would obtain large amounts of cash which he will keep at his home overnight to be deposited the next day. He asked that Sibisi and his assistant come to pretend to rob him of the cash which would then be used to pay him for his assistance. He was promised to be paid R15 000 of the R30 000 which will be ‘robbed’,” court documents read. Sibisi had asked for a deposit to carry out the crime but Leihlobi denied this request saying “his wife will become aware of their plans”. On the day of the incident they arrived at the residence where a scuffle took place in which Leihlobi was “overpowered” while his wife lay in bed before Thabang approached her and ordered her to stay quiet. “Sibisi started asking for the money which he thought would now be forthcoming but at that stage Leihlobi said that they should first kill his wife before they could get any money. Sibisi asked why and stated that this was not what they came for as agreed. Leihlobi said they will get their money after his wife has died … After Thabang strangled the now-deceased with a rope, she was still alive but at that stage Leihlobi proceeded to kill his wife himself with the same rope,” court documents read. The cousins had eventually left the scene without any money. During trial, Leihlobi denied knowing his co-accused and maintained his version that he and his wife were victims of a robbery. Judge Réan Strydom said: “The court finds that the version of Leihlobi is so inherently improbable in light of all the evidence, including the evidence of Thabang … that it can be rejected as false beyond reasonable doubt. The court finds that the evidence of Sibisi that this was a staged robbery was credible ... and supported by the probabilities.” Cape Times