Cape Town - In celebration of the end of the harvesting season, Steenberg Vineyards will host a trail run/walk in aid of the SA Guide-Dogs Association. The event which takes place on March 26 starts at Bistro Sixteen82 and ends at Bistro Sixteen82 on Steenberg Estate in Tokai. Participants can take part in the 5km or 10km run or walk, which will guide them through a unique terrain and views of the farm. There will be water and wine refreshment stations along the route and a glass of Steenberg Sparkling Sauvignon Blanc at the finish. Brand communications officer for the event, Chanel Conradie, said the main purpose is to give back to charities close to their hearts. “The SA Guide-Dogs Association does wonderful work in their field, and we believe they are an important asset to the group of people they serve. The Steenberg Trail Run will be a fun and rewarding way for people to give back. “These events are very important. They are eagerly anticipated every year by our visitors, and they offer the opportunity for our chosen charity to procure some much-needed funds,” she said. Regional marketing manager of SA Guide-Dogs Association, Jackie Quail, said donations and fundraising initiatives such as the Steenberg Trail Run help to keep their doors open. “Hosting fundraising events like this are so important as they help us raise the much needed funds we need to train our incredible dogs, who in turn provide independence to people with visual or physical disabilities. These events also help us raise awareness of our cause. “We are deeply grateful to Steenberg for generously offering to donate 50% of their profits to SA Guide-Dogs Association for the Blind. It is only because of generous partners like Steenberg that we can keep generating much needed funds,” she said. The South African Guide-Dogs Association for the Blind trains guide dogs for those who are visually impaired, service dogs for people who are physically disabled and provides other services such as an orientation and mobility department. For more information call Steenberg Farm on 021 713 2211. Weekend Argus