CAPE TOWN - The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has donated 900 wheelchairs and 1 200 mobility aids to the Western Cape department of health. The donation forms part of the church’s humanitarian aim to improve mobility, health, as well as educational and economic opportunities for people with physical disabilities, as revealed during a symbolic handover at Lentegeur Hospital on Monday The church donates over 50 000 wheelchairs across the world every year, according to spokesperson Sandile Makasi. “This project will benefit over five districts in the rural Western Cape. This is more of a celebration for us and this is an opportunity for us to connect with the department of health and to celebrate what has really happened,” said Makasi. "We think of those who are marginalised, especially the people in the rural areas who have limited health care services, especially those who have disabilities. "We also provide training for them so that they know what to do with the wheelchair once they receive them or they need to be fixed along the way,” Makasi added. The provincial head of health Dr Keith Cloete said the department aimed to leverage progressive relationships with social partners to create a healthier society. “There is quite a big prevalence of disability amongst our communities and the need obviously varies in relation to the disability condition people have so the need is good. Our resources are not able to meet all of that so we constantly have to prioritise by not being able to fill the entire need,” Cloete said. "A programme like this is a massive benefit to the way we want to do things because it does not only look at system devices it also looks at the system that you require to maintain the system device, there is a range of other things like training so a donation like this is bespoke. It is appropriate for our context because it takes into consideration, I would say, the operating system that you require for system devices to be used effectively.“ Beneficiary Babalo Pholose, 39, from Khayelitsha, said his new advanced wheelchair would make life easier for him. “I have been in a wheelchair since 2000 because of a Tuberculosis spine. I used to walk like any other person but it happened that I just collapsed and could not walk again,” Pholose said. "I was transferred to Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre and at the time I was using a big wheelchair that made it difficult for me to move around. This new wheelchair is nice and comfortable for me. "I now can move from place to place without any difficulties. This wheelchair has made my life very easy and if I did not have a wheelchair I would not be doing anything, and what I like about this one is that it is advanced and easy to operate,”  Pholose added. Cape Times