CAPE TOWN - A Thembalethu family says they live in fear daily as the illegal electricity connection that has energised a fence running past their home which killed their four year old son and injured his grandmother, is yet to be stopped. Little Ophayo Tukushe had touched the energized fence that connects to a nearby informal settlement and was electrocuted to death on January 22. His grandmother Nomvuselelo Tukushe was electrocuted the following day while hanging towels on the washing line. Ophayo’s grandfather Ntsikelelo Tukushe said the family was living in fear as a result of the continuing illegal power connection in their yard. “The municipality never came to us and got the full information of how this happened and how they are going to fix this illegal power connection. The illegal connection never stopped even after I lost my grandson and the municipality is doing nothing about it. They never bothered to assist us with funeral arrangements. “What is worse is that these people connect from the boxes that we pay for, they use our electricity at our expense. This puts our lives in danger. I almost lost my wife.” said Ntsikelelo. Ward councillor Erick Mdaka said the issue of illegal power connections has been raised many times by the community. “The informal settlement people continue to illegally connect because they don't have electricity and it is the municipality's responsibility to prevent them from doing that. “The informal settlements were built during the start of the covid-19 pandemic because many people lost jobs and could not afford to pay rent and other things so they decided to build shacks,” said Mdaka. Municipality spokesperson Ntobeko Mangqwengqwe said they were looking for alternative methods of electrification for the informal areas that meet the criteria of being electrified. “The removal of illegal connections is done through a planned operation as well as on an Ad-hoc basis before restoration of supply to an area. The planned operations are triggered by the municipality’s own inspections or reports from various community members.” He said the municipality was contacted the day Ophayo’s grandmother was electrocuted. “The municipality was only contacted on January 23 to report the incident as well as illegal connections. The municipality removed the illegal connection on January 23 following this report, before energizing the network again. This was the second time the municipality was removing the illegal connections in this area within five days because on January 20, the municipality had an operation of illegal connections removal in that area. From these incidents, it appears that the community reconnected themselves after the operation was concluded and officials left the site,” said Mangqwengqwe. Cape Times