THE Langa Cricket Club (LCC) is fighting to keep its 50 players in the game after the club was suspended over internal infighting.  The LCC was suspended by the Western Province Cricket Association (WPCA) in October and barred from participating in the 2021/22 fixtures following allegations of internal disputes.  A petition to have the suspension lifted has generated more than 3 400 signatures so far. Cricket lovers in the area are fighting to have the club reinstated so that the 50 players, between the ages of 10 and 19, who play in various leagues as well as the women’s division can participate at a professional level. Langa is the birthplace of local cricket sensation Temba Bavuma, the first black captain of the national cricket team, the Proteas.  LCC head coach Anam Mde, who has led the club for the past 15 years, said the suspension had negatively affected the club and its players. “It has been really frustrating . The club, kids and the community are affected. You can see in the field that these kids are not motivated to play and some of them have left for other sports.”  One of the concerned parents, Sithembiso Tsoli, said the suspension had had a negative impact on her daughter because she was stuck at home with no physical activity. b “I would like the suspension to be lifted soon because it affects the future of children and their talent goes wasted now. My kid wants to play other sports now,” she said.  Langa resident, Phakama Pato, said with the suspension in place hers and other children were always on the street.  “Now we do not know where our children spend their time after school. They go around in the streets and I even have a fear that they might be kidnapped,” she said.  Another parent, Unathi Dyira, said the executive committee of the club was not to blame for the suspension as it had implemented the changes needed by the club.  “When the exco was elected in 2020, everybody had confidence in them and as soon as they assumed their duties they did a good job and they were handling the administration in a good manner,” she said.  The newly leadership of the club said troubles began when, shortly after their election in 2020, an analysis of the club’s functionality was instituted. This move then reportedly resulted in internal disputes that led to some members resigning. “We worked on the constitution of the club. The latest constitution was voted for by the members and the community of Langa. We were working on the core of the LCC’s existence and trying to rebuild it through membership forms, a disciplinary committee, and relations with other bodies,” the club said in a statement.  The WPCA cricket services manager, Clinton du Preez, said the association would not comment on internal club matters and urged the two parties involved to resolve their disputes before the suspension could be lifted.  Tengo Sokhanyile, who is said to be leading the faction opposed to the new LCC leadership, refused to respond to queries from Weekend Argus, and said the matter was being handled by his lawyers.  The new leadership alleged that the former members used the gender of its newly elected chairperson, a woman, and claimed that she did not understand cricket in the dispute they lodged to get the club suspended.  Chairperson Tali Molefe insisted that she was capable of leading the club, adding that she was nominated and voted for by a majority of members of the club.  “I started in 2017 as a proactive club member and guardian parent of the children. In September 2020 I was nominated and voted as a chairperson.  “The disputes and allegations are unfair. There is no infighting. The exco consists of five people who work well together. There are individuals outside the cricket club who are unhappy with changes that this new executive is making, hence their dispute. It is people who do not understand that the club needs to be restructured,” said Molefe.  Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport spokesperson Tania Colyn said while the department had been approached by a representative of the LCC over the suspension, the matter should be dealt with by the WPCA.