Charming, good looking and a six pack to boot! Cape Town’s Nathan Soan Mngomezulu antics put the rules of reality TV ’s Too Hot to Handle Season 3 to the test. Rules are rules even when gorgeous singles meet and mingle because the show has a twist. To win the grand prize, they have to remain abstinent. The premise of the show is built around helping a group of adults foster meaningful connections instead of meaningless flings. The rules are simple, no physical contact is allowed. The prize is $200 000 and each time someone breaks a rule, money gets deducted from the fund. A kiss on the show would cost the players $6000. Mngomezulu’s behaviour cost his team $90 000 but the reality TV star said he had “no regrets for breaking any rules”.  The show is hosted by a virtual assistant named Lana who narrates, makes snarky and funny remarks about contestants. And is quick to point out who has broken the rules and the hefty price for their antics.  In the first episode, the Cape Town hunk coupled up with fellow contestant Holly Scarfone. Their chemistry and fireworks came at a cost. Eventually, Mngomezulu was told to leave the show as he continued to break the rules. “When Lana asked me to leave I was shocked. I was so invested in the process and was disappointed to be told I was leaving,” he said. He added: “I know Lana thought I could have learned more if I hadn’t broken any of the rules.” But after being told to leave the island, Mngomezulu was given a second chance and he returned to the show. “Getting a second chance at the retreat is so rare. It’s never happened before on the show. I felt so honoured and still do to this day.” Mngomezulu began to play according to the rules and made it to the top three who stood a chance to win the grand prize. After Lana made the announcement, the cast then voted. And UK couple Beaux Raymond and Harry Johnson were deemed the worth winners. “When Lana announced the winners I congratulated Beaux and Harry, but I also thought damn, who didn’t vote for me! “ Mngomezulu did not confirm nor deny whether he and Scarfone were still an item. “Holly and I had a lot of fun, we made memories after the show too so it wasn’t all for nothing, let’s leave it at that.” The 25-year-old said his biggest lesson on the show was learning to emotionally invest in relationships. “I made a best friend in Jackson. Gerrie tried to teach me how to play the guitar. Patrick was the retreat healer and spiritual guide. I think Patrick taught me just as much as Lana did!” He added: “My experience was exhilarating and one of a kind. It was nothing like I expected a reality show to be. I’d recommend any other international playboys apply for any future series.” The self-proclaimed playboy’s full-time job is fashion modelling between London and Cape Town. “At the moment I am living in London. I’m focussing on modelling and other business ventures and am moving into an apartment with a friend very soon!” Fans of the show who want to see more of Mngomezulu can watch him in the season 3 reunion on YouTube. “I really enjoyed filming Too Hot To Handle: Extra Hot,” he said.