CAPE TOWN - Forty-eight hours is the target set by Im'possible Tour founder, Grant Lottering, to complete his Cross Cape Im'possible Dream Tour in aid of the Reach for a Dream Foundation, and 34 children fighting life-threatening illnesses. Starting in Plettenberg Bay on Saturday, Lottering will tackle the challenging Cross Cape and Karoo Crossing Cape Cycle Routes across the Western Cape, covering a total distance of 835km and just under 16 000m of vertical gain, most of it on gravel terrain. The Cape Cycle Routes will take Lottering through the coastal Garden Route to the arid Klein Karoo, over the Swartberg Pass, through the Overberg and finishing in the Cape Winelands in Stellenbosch on Monday. “I believe when one has a personal need, the best you can do is meet the need of someone else. That makes one mindful that there are always others worse off than we are,” said Lottering. "Having driven this entire route by car during my recent reconnaissance, I know it is going to be an incredibly difficult challenge to cycle my 8th Im'possible Tour non-stop within 48 hours. It will mean riding day and night, no sleep, no stopovers, no breakfast, lunch or dinner, just one continuous agonising ride." Lottering founded the first of his annual Im’Possible Tours in 2014 after suffering a near-fatal accident in Trento, Italy, and was told it would be impossible for him to cycling again. He has endured 12 surgeries and overcome cancer.  Yet he refuses to be deterred by his challenges and continues to help others. “Many people have had their livelihoods destroyed and are struggling to find a way out. I aim to conquer this attempt, not only for the 34 Reach for a Dream kids but also for everyone who faces massive challenges going into 2022, especially those who have lost hope. “ I want the story of my 2nd chance at life and the mountains I have faced and overcome, and will face during this Im'possible Dream Tour, to inspire and encourage others not to give up. I want people to dream again, to believe again," Lottering said. To reach the 34 dream benchmark, corporates and the public can get involved and donate towards the 34 dreams via the Reach for a Dream website, or contact Head of Business, Natalie Lazaris, directly on 082 721 5004 or on natalie@reachforadream.org.za, using #DGdreamtour as a reference. Cape Times