Cape Town - As the excitement over matric results subsides, the race to get into the best universities begins.  And education experts are concerned about how the final results in maths and science might affect gateway subjects for higher education and career options that are critical for the country’s economic growth and development. Despite the maths pass rate indicating an improvement from 65.8% in 2020 to 69% in 2021 and physical science indicating a slight dip from 75.5% in 2020 to 74.7% in 2021, experts believe that the science and technology sectors might be in deep waters, as well as other disciplines, in the 5-15 years ahead unless a major turnaround takes place this year. Maths and science educational consultant John Bransby said while there was an increase, many pupils were obtaining under 50%.  “Although there is a reasonable percentage pass in these critical subjects (like 70–80% pass rates most years), the annual national matric averages in maths and science are usually in the 30–40 region, thus clearly indicating that the majority of the learners are achieving between 20–49% pass marks, and these learners will not be accepted, nor will they pass these critical subjects required for these disciplines at the tertiary level. “In the recent matric maths exam, about 1% achieved maths marks that are good enough to enable them to secure university entrance into degrees requiring top matric marks in maths and science. “To gain entry, pursue, pass and be successful in a tertiary institution in one of these critical disciplines, and then gain entry to one of these careers, is very challenging indeed. Not only does the learner need to be intelligent, hard-working and disciplined in their studies, but they also need the necessary financial assistance, guidance, appropriate support and backing as they also learn how to engage and grapple with the requirements of being away from home and needing to look after themselves,” said Bransby. Chairperson of the standing committee on education in the legislature, Lorraine Botha, said despite the class of 2021 doing well on the final exam, budget cuts and delayed allocation of funding had a huge impact on the ability of all education departments. “Budget cuts and delayed allocation of funding have a huge impact on the ability of all education departments to deliver quality education to pupils. In just the last year, the budget for the national maths and science conditional grant was cut by 3.8%, creating serious constraints for the provincial department. Hence, going forward, the funding of maths and science must be prioritised by the national government,” said Botha. With the race to universities selecting their prospective pupils concluded, UCT media liaison Nombuso Shabalala said good performance in maths and science is without question a must, however, the university will be intervening to provide additional support to pupils. “Good outcomes in maths and science matter for university entrance. These subjects make a positive contribution to the needs of the fourth industrial revolution, which requires highly competent graduates in the science, technology, engineering, and maths areas. Strong performance in maths is essential for careers in computing, programming, finance and machine learning. “As a result, a number of interventions have been implemented in recent years to provide additional support to students, such as “maths labs, Saturday workshops, and even providing multilingual resources to assist students who are not yet fluent in the medium of instruction,” said Shabalala. Stellenbosch University spokesperson Martin Viljoen said the university is well aware of the fact that many prospective pupils completed their schooling under various challenging circumstances. Hence, pupils who did gain admission to the university can apply for the Extended Degree Programme (EDP) – providing access to pupils who faced some of these challenges and, with better access and support, will succeed. “The EDP could include extending the first year of study over two years and receiving additional academic support. This is in addition to the general support mechanisms available to all pupils. “The university also manages a second opportunity programme, science and mathematics at Stellenbosch University (SciMathUS), available to applicants to improve their performance in key Matric subjects and then gain access to higher education. “This very successful programme offers pupils who have already passed Grade 12 (with an average of at least 60%) but who do not qualify for higher education a second opportunity to improve their NSC results in specific subjects to enable them to re-apply for university programmes,” said Viljoen. For a better outcome going forward, Bransby believes achieving better results at matric level starts in Grade 9. “Pupils who achieve below 50% in Grade 9 should not be encouraged to take maths and science. If they continue with maths and science after achieving poor marks at Grade 9 level, they will in all likelihood fail both subjects and thus their matric outright. “Going forward, those particular maths and science pupils who gain entry to tertiary in these subjects need to be properly guided, advised and supported at the tertiary level so that they do not “fall through the cracks at the tertiary level. “We need everyone who qualifies with good maths and science marks in matric to complete their tertiary studies – to help fill the gaps in commerce and science industry today and those that are going to open up further in the years ahead as we endeavour to meet the requirements of the NDP and 4IR in the years to come,” said Bransby. Weekend Argus