DURBAN - Star College’s top achievers remained consistent and worked throughout their 2021 matric year, the advice they want the school’s class of 2022 to embrace. Samuel Soodyall and Kaylin Naidoo each achieved nine distinctions in their subjects, including physical sciences, accounting and life sciences. Both aspire to pursue science-based studies at UCT and the University of Pretoria. Soodyall, 18, said the pressure of knowing that he was in matric added a layer of intrigue to the year. “It was interesting to see just how much pressure came with just being in matric. But it was important to start and not stop. In other words, just remain consistent. Whatever was a bit easy, I just tried to keep that up and put effort into the more difficult. Because as soon as you lose your rhythm, you end up thinking that you are not doing as well as you wanted to. Be consistent throughout the year. “The pressure of knowing that everything about your schooling life rests on the final exams adds that extra pressure,” said Soodyall. Naidoo, 18, shone the light on “one’s ability to self-motivate” as there was more leeway in teaching and learning processes when online classes were introduced. “The challenges we face are different as pupils, as we come from backgrounds that contrast, so the pressures come in many ways. But in my opinion, I had to find the courage to adapt, self-motivate and remain disciplined. “The introduction of online classes may seem like a lifetime ago, but with the matric workload, finding the study time needed resourcefulness, which is using the tools available such as Google, to elevate my level of understanding. “It definitely was not easy, but I think these were key areas that I would strongly advise other matrics to look at and work on,” said Naidoo. Naidoo was placed sixth in the top 10 achievers for KwaZulu-Natal. Meanwhile, Westville Girls’ High School (WGHS) celebrated its 100% pass rate for the 31st year running. WGHS’s Danika Govender and Michaela Swan placed in the top five achievers in the Pinetown District with an average of 95.67% and 93.83% respectively. More than 97.7% secured a Bachelor degree pass, while 33.18% of them achieved an A aggregate. Principal Russell Untiedt said the pupils should take pride in their achievements. “The Grade 12 class of 2021 ought to be justifiably proud of the fine set of results they have attained – an extraordinary achievement, considering the educational setbacks they have faced across nearly two years of dealing with the challenges brought about by a global pandemic. “WGHS applauds the collective efforts of the staff, who have given their all to educate this fine cohort of young women since their Grade 8 year,” said Untiedt. Daily News