De la Rouviere’s Hout Bay house is home to more than just her two children and husband, she has 500 plants that have turned her humble abode into an ’indoor’ jungle.  The 33 year old became popular for turning her love for plants into a thriving business venture she plans to expand on this year.  Saffron’s Garden Plant Club began in 2020 out of a desire to connect with the South African plant community.  The business is a subscription-based where subscribers receive a mystery plant and plant-related gift delivered to their doorstep each month, at a cost of R450.  De la Rouviere, started with nine subscribers which has swelled to 150 members. Having studied international relations at Stellenbosch University, a trip to Taiwan on completion of her degree made her fall in love with plants.  “I realised how much I missed a cultivated outdoor space of my own.  “When I returned to South Africa, I became very interested in succulents and this slowly expanded into the world of indoor plants. “I can’t stop collecting! They’re like Pokemon, you’ve got to catch them all! Except that’s impossible.” De la Rouviere said she started her indoor jungle during the 2017 drought that Cape Town experienced. “Our garden was dry and dusty and one of the only sanctuaries we had was indoors and so I slowly started filling our flat with plants.” Over time, the plant enthusiast realised her love for plants. “That was when I started my blog and Instagram account (@saffronsgarden).  “This evolved into the business over time. “I never thought I would end up doing this for a living. I was on track to becoming a political risk analyst and I was busy co-founding a travel risk company before plants distracted me.” Originally from Joburg, Saffron and her husband Niel now live in Hout Bay with their three-year-old daughter, Rose and two-month-old son, August. When it comes to having green fingers, De la Rouviere said she didn’t believe that anyone was born with it. “Even the best gardeners kill plants.  “They’ve just had more practise and killed more plants and so know a little bit more than someone who hasn’t,” she said. De la Rouviere said being a plant mom was a rewarding experience. “I think just about anyone plant-mad would agree that seeing a new leaf unfurl is euphoric.  “Just about any new growth is a testament that you’re doing something right,” she said.  “I love being able to help people achieve that sense of success.  “Sometimes just watering a plant a little less or moving it to a brighter spot will have tremendous results and people are happy that they’ve achieved something.” De la Rouviere said the pandemic helped her business. “The psychology of closing the distance between people during the pandemic helped the business form a strong community.” In future, De la Rouviere would like to welcome more subscribers to her Plant Club. “Strengthening the community is also a priority and hosting plant swaps and talks are definitely on the cards,” she said. “Saffron’s Garden is also education driven and so we’re excited to be bringing out an online course this year which focuses on indoor plants. “Everyone has the potential for being a good plant parent.  “Experiment more with the plants around you and be kind to yourself when the odd plant dies.”