Conroy Cloete and Anastia Davids have two things in common - they fight crime and are popular TikTok content creators.  While these police officers take the uniform seriously, they both love posting videos on TikTok. This week, police tops brass warned that they would take action against cops who break dress code rules or post indecent and distasteful content on social media while in uniform.  Cloete has decided to not post any content in his uniform, while Davids said she stopped sharing content in her uniform months ago.  Davids (@nazzwp) is a 37-year-old sergeant from Cape Town’s northern suburbs who has served in the police for the past 16 years. On her TikTok account, Davids shares life experiences, including her divorce. “I see a lot of stuff when I’m out there, and I have a lot to share about it.” She added: “The highlight of having this platform is that I now have the opportunity to say what many are thinking about but might be too afraid to say.” Davids started her TikTok account when she had Covid-19 two years ago.  She has 38 900 followers, with her content gaining 672 000 likes. “I was isolated for 22 days, and I had nothing to do. I started doing random videos and sharing my life with my followers, and it has been uphill since.” The sergeant said that when she goes out on a case for work, she often gets stopped by followers but makes it clear that work comes first. “I always say that the person you see on TikTok is the social butterfly, but when I need to do my job, it’s a different scenario. I keep the two separate,” she said. Davids, who got divorced six years ago, shared her experience of healing and self-discovery. “I became bluntly honest about what happened in  my divorce, and I decided not to hide behind the hurt and pain of what I went through anymore. She is also a fashion lover with a fashion sense that is runway ready. Davids said, in the future, she wants to share fashion advice with her followers. “I love showing people that you can dress up regardless of your size and budget. I want to keep working on my fashion and inspire ladies to be independent.” Cloete (@conroycloete07) is a constable and is known for his inspiring TikTok videos. His followers have become so reliant on his positive vibe that when he doesn’t post, they message him  for a dose of encouragement. Cloete, 28, who is originally from Springbok, now lives and works in the small town of Graafwater, between Clanwilliam and Lamberts Bay. The young constable completed his two years of training at the police college at 21 and spent two years undercover working to expose drug dealers. He created his TikTok account when he realised he could inspire others online. “I believe that this is God using me to motivate others. Sharing my content online is therapeutic to me too.” When he was 23, Cloete wanted to commit suicide because of problems with his family and romantic life.  But he thought about his son, who is now eight-years-old. “I realised that I didn’t want my son to be without a father and that there was more to life than what I was facing,” he said. In 2019, he booked himself into Palm Tree mental health clinic for three weeks which helped him work on himself. “I learned so much about myself and my life up until that point. I had to realise that a lot of what I went through wasn’t my fault,” he said. He refers to his followers as ‘ysters’ and ‘ysterese’, the Afrikaans reference to their strength and ability to overcome life’s challenges. People have started to recognise him on the streets. “People have started recognising me more and more and started calling me ‘Yster’ in the streets,” he said. He added: “ My colleagues often tease me to say that I am a celebrity.” Cloete wants to keep inspiring his followers and encourage them to face life’s challenges. “If I can do this for person one day, that would be great.”