DURBAN - A 19-YEAR-OLD Grade 12 pupil was among six people who were shot dead in Amaoti in Inanda on Friday. Families of the deceased, who spoke to The Mercury yesterday but declined to be named for fear of reprisals, said they had been left devastated by the shooting. A police report indicated that the motive may have been drug-related, but this has been denied by the families. Qaphelani Nkovu, 19, from Amandlethu Secondary School, was among those killed. His mother, who asked not to be named, said she’d had high hopes that her son would complete matric. She said her son had come home from school on Friday and left to go to a tuckshop. “He came home from school and changed his uniform, he told his sister he’d be back. He used to hang around the tuckshop where the shooting took place, but he was a good boy. “I heard rumours of drugs, but my son was not involved with drugs. Three boys killed in the shooting used to hang around at the tuckshop. They were not friends of my son. I believe that these boys were the target of the shooting; my son was caught in it.” Nkovu’s mother added that her younger son was the first at the scene and found Nkovu. Mlondi Getane, 23, was another victim of the shooting. His uncle, who asked not to be named, said that the family were formerly from the Eastern Cape, but now lived in Inanda.   Getane’s uncle said that on Friday he was busy with work when he heard gunshots. “I was busy at 2pm with my business, which I run from home, when I heard repeated gunshots. “I went to check and noticed that there was a silver car with two men. I was afraid to go and check. I then noticed the two men getting into the vehicle and the vehicle turning. “I was shocked to discover that my nephew was among the deceased. The shooting was like an execution.” Meanwhile, the family of Sivuyile Khuzwayo, 29, who live in Inanda, believe he was targeted by the same culprits. Khuzwayo was shot dead in Phoenix on the same day as the Inanda murders.   “My brother was shot dead on the same day. “My brother had no known enemies, and as far as I know he never had any involvement with drugs. “I believe this is a revenge shooting. My brother may have been friends with boys who may have been involved with a business robbery, and this was a revenge killing. However, my brother was not involved in any crime.” Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker confirmed that police were investigating the shootings in Inanda. “Police at Inanda are investigating six counts of murder after a shooting incident at Amaoti. It is alleged that at 2.30pm, a vehicle with three occupants arrived at a tuckshop and opened fire at a group of men who were seated behind the tuckshop. Six men aged between 17 and 26 years old were killed in the attack.” THE MERCURY