CAPE TOWN - The Goodwood Ratepayers and Residents Association has lauded the community and police for working together to nab two suspects who attempted a business robbery in the busy Voortrekker Road. Two suspects, an Ethiopian man, 35, and a Zimbabwean man, 29, are expected in court after vigilance by the public and the swift response by police led to their arrests. The suspects are alleged to have have been armed when they held the owners of a shop at gunpoint. One of the suspects fled when they were disturbed by a security guard who raised the alarm, but was apprehended by members of the public. When police arrived at the scene they arrested the second suspect. WATCH: Police foiled an armed robbery at a Voortrekker Road shop in Goodwood where the owner was held at gunpoint on Wednesday. Video: Armand Hough/African News Agency pic.twitter.com/4Q9XS4Du5k The ratepayers association thanked the community. “The vigilance of the public and the swift response by police and armed response led to the arrest of two suspects on a charge of business robbery. “We are pleased that with the swift response by our security clusters, two suspects have successfully been arrested and a firearm recovered. “On December 16 we put out a call to our community to be vigilant and reporting any suspicious activities. “This has resulted in suspects who stole cabling at Monte Vista train station being arrested on January 6 and this morning, the two suspects in the business robbery were apprehended. “We commend the female security officer from Byers Security Solutions, who helped apprehend the first suspect, as well as the Goodwood SAPS and their support units, who apprehended a second suspect and managed to clear the situation. “Well done to you all. “We once again appeal to our community (residents and businesses) to be vigilant and to report any suspicious activities,” they said. Separately the Kensington Community Police Forum (CPF) has vowed to continue working hard alongside police to make the area safer following the recent snatching of a five-year-old from his grandmother’s house. On Tuesday residents allegedly assaulted a man who was accused of attempting to steal the child. The boy was found with bite marks believed to be from the suspect, and had to be admitted to a medical facility. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said a 46-year-old man was arrested and was still receiving medical treatment at a medical facility. “The circumstances leading to assault grievous bodily harm (GBH) were being investigated.” According to Traut the incident happened at about 9.30am in 4th Avenue. “It is alleged that the suspect, who is known to the complainant, entered her residence and took her five year old grandson without her consent. He was cornered by community members after the complainant made an alarm. “It is believed that the suspect, who is seemingly mentally challenged, was assaulted by the community before he was handed over to police,” he said. On the same day a second suspect was arrested in connection with an incident that happened on December 28, in which a man died and others were wounded after shots were fired at people who were sitting in a parked vehicle in Factreton Avenue. The first suspect, a 16-year-old, was arrested last week. CPF chairperson Cheslyn Steenberg applauded police for the arrest. “We are hoping that justice will be swift for Levi Davids and his family. “During the incident Levi and others managed to drive to the Community Service Centre (CSC) for protection but collapsed in front of the entrance door at the facility. He later died in hospital.” Steenberg said they needed to work with other organisations and place preventative programmes in place to offer youth at risk alternatives to gangsterism. Cape Times