ARTISANAL foods, antiques, farm-grown produce, hand-crafted goods and other bric-a-brac are all staples at the city’s many markets. Before Covid-19 and its restrictive lockdowns, weekend markets were popular for bargain hunters and hipsters alike. As restrictions ease, markets are starting to see a return of customers and traders are grateful for some financial relief. The Milnerton Market costs traders as little as R150 a day, in comparison with The Old Biscuit Mill, which costs between R300 and R600 per day, depending on the type of business or wares on sale. The Earth Fair Food Market charges traders between R225 and R460, depending on the business. The Oranjezicht City Farm Market charges traders R500 on average, but prices will vary depending on the size of the stall and nature of the business.  Darryl Willis, the owner and founder of Stay Fresh Sneakers, a premium sneakers cleaning company  is only to happy to see regular and new customers return to his weekly stall at the Old Biscuit Mill Neighbourgoods Market since September. “I sell more of my product at the market than with my online store,” he said. “With the decrease of tourists due to the pandemic, Covid-19 affected me. With relaxed restrictions, I have seen more people coming in to support my business. “Markets are such a great way to get your name out there. I wish more small businesses would realise this.” Lyle Satram and Romel Rodriguez are co-owners and founders of That Good Good, a food brand that sells tacos and burgers. Their business was founded in May and has traded from the Biscuit Mill every weekend since. Satram said the market had brought great exposure to their food business. “We’ve received so many queries to do catering for other events and private parties. We are thrilled about the increased interest.” He added: “Covid-19 has been tough on everyone and we are all happy that restrictions have been lifted, and we are looking forward to seeing more customers visit us at the market.” Bruce Tait has been a trader at the Milnerton Market (formerly known as the Milnerton Flea Market) for the past 18 years. Tait buys items to resell at the market and thus has a little bit of everything on sale. “Trading at the market has been a matter of sheer necessity for me. I live off the income I make at the market over the weekends,” he said. "I am here every Saturday and Sunday, come rain or shine. The market has helped me so much and I am grateful for the money that comes in. “We are looking forward to getting back to where we once were.” Sheryl Ozinsky is one of the founders of the Oranjezicht City Farm Market and is also responsible for the main fruit and vegetable stall and the market bar. Ozinsky said the last few weeks have renewed her hope in the business. “As markets, we rely on people coming in. In times of Covid-19, we had to cut down on how many people we could allow in but thankfully we are starting to recover,” she said. She added: “It’s still not what it was pre-pandemic but there is a sign of hope that it is improving.” Nicholas Musonza is the owner of Mighty Schwarma Catering, a stall at the Earth Fair Food Market in Plumstead. Musonza has been trading at the market for just over two years and is grateful for the way it has helped his business. “Business has been going very well and we are very positive about how the market has helped us and will continue to help us,” he said. He added: “The reduction in Covid-19 restrictions has helped us a lot. It has allowed me to rebuild my business. We have great sales and many people are coming into the market.” “Tourists are a big source of income as they don’t cook when they are on holiday and we are happy to have them back.”