THE ANC in the Western Cape Legislature has supported the bid for Cape Town to remain a home for Parliament. Earlier this week ANC Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina said public debates on relocating Parliament to Tshwane, in the wake of a devastating fire, had both financial and constitutional implications and was not a priority. This comes as both the EFF and the ANC’s Fikile Mbalula have called for government’s legislative house to move to Tshwane. “We have long taken a decision to relocate parliament to Gauteng, but not at the exploitation of dubious circumstances like burning down a building. Relocating makes financial and political sense‚” said Mbalula in a tweet. But on Wednesday, the leader of the opposition in the Provincial Parliament, Cameron Dugmore, outlined their stance on the position. “We hope that the chief whip’s unambiguous statement will stop what we consider ill-informed and opportunistic calls for Parliament to be moved and rebuilt in Tshwane. In our view Cape Town is the seat of Parliament,” he said. “Having the two seats of government, the administrative and the legislative seat, situated in Tshwane and Cape Town respectively, is a big contribution to unity and nation-building. We do not need to build a new parliamentary precinct in Gauteng. “This is clearly not a national priority. What is now needed is to establish what factors led to clear security lapses that contributed to the fire, and a plan to get the business of Parliament going, including arrangements for the State of the Nation Address.” Public Works and Infrastructure Minister Patricia de Lille told the Joint Standing Committee on the Financial Management of Parliament  on Tuesday that alternative accommodation to continue Parliament’s work while the fire damage was being repaired, was being sought. De Lille also said a preliminary report is expected from a 10-member engineering panel that was set up to assess the extent of the fire damage, repair costs and the duration of a rebuild project. Colonel Theron, who is the investigating officer in the case against arson suspect Zandile Christmas Mafe is also expected to visit the site to assess damages as investigations continue.