Cape Town - Books are useful tools for sparking interaction between families and creating moments that will be cherished for years to come. City librarians from Athlone, Bonteheuwel, Bridgetown and Rylands, as well as Nal’ibali and other role players, will celebrate World Read Aloud Day by taking children on a story walk in Nantes Park, Athlone, on Wednesday. Mayco member for Community Services and Health Patricia van der Ross said the aim is to shine a spotlight on the benefits of reading aloud to children. “This activity, which can help parents and children bond as they share words, has an immense impact on the child’s development. Children who read stories often have improved language and listening skills, and they develop a love for reading that carries into adulthood. It also helps them to navigate social situations, solve problems and give wings to their imagination,” she said. Van der Ross, who will join the group, will also start the City’s 1 000 Stories Before School reading campaign. She said the campaign encourages pregnant mothers to read to their unborn baby from 26 weeks, as this is when a baby starts to hear sounds outside the womb. “The aim is to reinforce the importance of bonding through reading and singing as the unborn baby gets used to the sound of their mother’s voice. “The campaign hopes to inculcate a passion for stories from a young age through the various programmes being offered by City libraries, and this includes pregnancy support groups, book sharing, pram jams and storytelling.We hope that by the time the child starts school, words and reading will be second nature to them,” she added. Nal’ibali, together with free book publisher for children, Book Dash, and other role players, developed the reading material for the campaign. A director at Book Dash, Dorette Louw, said: “The main message of the campaign is to help parents understand that there are huge benefits to reading with children from before they are born, all the way through their preschool years and beyond. “Research indicates that a strong connection between a mother and her unborn baby boosts a child's development throughout their life, because everything is rooted in a deep feeling of security and connection. Reading together (including ‘reading to the bump’) is an easy and enjoyable way to achieve this,” she said. “The benefits of reading regularly include stimulation of the imagination, language development, socio-emotional development and general cognitive development. Books are also wonderful tools for sparking interaction between adults and children, and for creating shared moments of joy,” she said. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said: “Reading, particularly in the foundation phase, is a strategic priority for the Western Cape Education Department (WCED). The ability to read and write is the foundation on which all further learning is based, and the ability to read for meaning and pleasure is without a doubt the most important skill that children can learn in primary school. “I urge all parents to encourage their children to read from an early age. A love of reading is the greatest gift you can give them. And if you need something for them to read, the WCED’s virtual library has a range of eBooks in different languages to get you started: https://wcedeportal.co.za/eresource/121686,” she said. Weekend Argus