DURBAN – The city of uMhlathuze has announced the launch of the inaugural Business Expo 2022 from February 16 to February 18. The Expo will bring together government officials, state-owned institutions, policy makers, investors, business executives, civil society leaders, successful entrepreneurs, academic institutions and youth organisations to have a dialogue, share ideas on best practice on thematic areas, and propose solutions. The Expo is in partnership with Richards Bay Industrial Development Zone(RBIDZ) and will span two days. A statement today says the Inaugural Business Expo will see major industries, companies and SMMEs display opportunities available for the benefit of the local businesses. It said the focus of the Expo will be how local businesses and entrepreneurs can access these opportunities. “Awareness on employment and procurement opportunities are topping the agenda of the Expo, which will be held at ZCBF Halls on 16 to18 February 2022,” the statement said. According to the statement a critical objective of the Expo is the establishment of formal linkages between the municipality, government departments, industries and local SMMEs. “Patrons attending the Business Expo will be able to interact with captains of industries and participate in the information sharing sessions between small, medium and large businesses and government entities. “The intention is for the SMMEs to have one-on-one sessions with industry and government on matters that need focused discussion and clarification for their businesses,” it said. In addition, Invest in Richards Bay will also be launched at the Expo. Invest in Richards Bay is an initiative by RBIDZ that aims to showcase the area as the active industrial destination for domestic and foreign direct investments. Invest in Richards Bay seeks to highlight the following: The expo will also offer the opportunity for Business-to-Business (B2B) linkage  sessions that will take place as side activities to the exhibitions over the two days. THE MERCURY