CAPE TOWN - As Khayelitsha looks to build itself as a Cape tourism and entertainment hub, the Milk Restaurant and Bar, which launched in 2018 as a premium lifestyle entertainment boutique and the first three-storey upmarket restaurant and bar in a township, is now relaunching as The Milk Restaurant & Champagne Bar after taking a hiatus in 2020 due to the Covid-19  pandemic. The relaunch of the restaurant and Champagne bar sees the resurrection of 35 employment opportunities, with the majority of the staff coming from Khayelitsha. In recent years, Khayelitsha has seen a rise in establishments redefining the area as the Cape's next tourism and entertainment hub with the recent development of The Spade Boutique Hotel & Spa, Rands Cape Town, Spine Road Lifestyle, Ocean Canda and Seek Lounge. These establishments are joining a list of long-standing, well-known establishments such as Kwa Ace and Kefu’s Jazz Bar. In 2018, Siphelo "Spelo" Jalivane took the risk of opening the restaurant out of his own pocket and was met with overwhelming success. However, the business immediately faced challenges which put a strain on its operations. “I opened the business too soon. I was in a rush and wanted to get it off the ground, not knowing the challenges I would face with infrastructure. I took for granted the kitchen equipment required and this resulted badly on service delivery. Additionally, I was in financial woes. I had invested every cent in construction, borrowed money from here and there and collectors were chasing me. I was in financial distress. I had to face the music and own up to my mistakes which caught up with me at a later stage. “Lockdown forced me to sit and simmer in my reality. It saved me because through it I developed a healthy working business relationship with the two successful brothers and outdoor Mecca Kings,” Jalivane said. Spelo has partnered with the Mbeki bothers, Mfundo and Mshayi, who are co-owners of the popular eatery Rands Cape Town. The brothers are now part owner of The Milk Restaurant & Champagne Bar. Though the three businessmen have collaborated on other projects before, this one signifies the importance of unity in developing the community and the township economy. “This is a great opportunity to show what we can do when we work together as brothers, helping each other grow in business,” said Mfundo and Mshayi. Here’s what visitors and guests can expect: Ground floor Previously, the ground floor served as a restaurant. It will now be a full-time liquor store with a separate entrance to the restaurant and champagne bar. Here a variety of drinks, including beers, ciders, wines, hard liquor and more, are on offer for off-site consumption. First floor The restaurant has now moved to the first floor with a primary focus on cuisine, offering semi-fine dining as opposed to its initial fine-dining experience. Defined as the quintessential African dining experience, with a luxe offering prepared by culinary experts, guests can expect to enjoy breakfast, lunch and dinner while seated in modern, up-to-date and stylish furniture with velvet influences. Dish offerings range from seafood to grills and light meals. Second floor (rooftop) The rooftop offers a view of Khayelitsha’s landscape. Designed with the high-end clientele in mind, who enjoy their premium beverages such as Champagne, cognac or whisky, the lounge setting features four- to 10-seater lounges to accommodate groups. The Milk Restaurant & Champagne Bar is located on the corner of Makabeni Road and Zantsi Street in Khayelitsha and is open from Monday to Sunday from 10am to 11pm. For reservations, contact 081 414 8913.