Hip Hop artist Patty Monroe’s  latest album, Perfect Timing  touches on various  themes including love, gender-based violence, gang violence and  the Covid-19 pandemic. Four years after the release of her debut album, Malatjie, Monroe decided that it was time for the world to hear her smooth lyricism coupled with some sick beats. The album is named Perfect Timing because Monroe believes there’s no time like the present. “I believe that if you want something, you must go for it. I’ve been praying about this release and fasting. I decided to run with it because this was the perfect timing to release it.” She added: “There is no such thing as coincidence. If you walk in your purpose and alignment, it’s always going to be perfect timing.” “I am going to live my life courageously, loudly, boldly and just be my authentic self.” Ghanian American artist DeWun Music is featured on two tracks on the album. “He was stuck here during the pandemic so we got together to cook some magic,” she said. Perfect Timing consists of seven tracks. “I don’t doubt that this is my best work yet. This is what people have told me and I agree. I didn’t want to take up too much of their time but I was ready to put out new music,” she said. The artist, who hails from the southern suburbs, said track seven, Slé, is her favourite on the album. “You can dance to this track, workout to it and dance to it. I love dancing and this makes me want to move,” she said. She added: “Choosing a favourite song from a body of work is like choosing a favourite child. I love Madam President, Perfect Timing has a place in my heart and so does RollerCoaster.” The Reminiscing hit-maker said she was thankful for all the people God put in her life to help make this album. “It’s a piece of me and my soul that I decided to share with the world. The response has been amazing and I am so thankful for everyone who has been streaming, downloading and sharing it.” She added: “Even if I had any doubt, it’s gone now. It’s a beautiful thing to share something with people who appreciate it the way you do.” Monroe said this album gave her the momentum to keep working on her music. “I feel amazing and I am ready to work on the next project,” she said.