DURBAN - ActionSA is expected to announce eThekwini party chief whip Musa Kubheka as the new provincial chairperson to replace Dr Makhosi Khoza. The Daily News was reliably informed that the party’s national leadership has chosen Kubheka and would be formally announced in a meeting, which is to be held later on Thursday. Various sources within the party said Kubheka had been chosen to criss-cross the province, launching branches in preparation for the 2024 general elections. Party provincial spokesperson Busi Radebe said the party would not make any comment on succession until the formal announcement. Attempts to get Kubheka were unsuccessful. Kubheka was Dr Khoza’s running mate, and the two had been working together in the province and eThekwini during the campaign. He was number two on eThekwini ‘s party candidate list and was subsequently appointed to the chief whip position. The Daily News understands that Kubheka was initially earmarked for mayoral candidate, while Khoza was still reluctant to return to local government, but he had to make way for her after changing her mind and accepting party nomination. The party has four seats in eThekwini. “He has business acumen and is a very calm person. I think he would make a good leader, although he has never been in the public eye, but he must be given a chance to prove his worth,” said a source, who spoke on conditions of anonymity. Khoza was asked by the party to step down as provincial leader, and the initial reason was that the party wanted her to focus on her new position as the municipality Mpac chairperson. It has since emerged that the party was punishing her for rebelling against the party. On Wednesday, she and her boss Herman Mashaba clashed publicly during an interview on Radio 702 where Mashaba accused her of betraying the DA-led bloc during the voting of eThekwini mayor. Mashaba also lashed out at her for contesting the Mpac position without approval by the party, but Khoza hit back, accusing the party founder of wanting to micromanage provincial leaders. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995 Daily News