CAPE TOWN - Supporters of a 26-year-old woman who was allegedly raped by an on duty police officer stationed at Brackenfell, are calling for bail to be denied when the accused is back in court next month. The officer made a brief appearance in the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court on Monday after the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) arrested the accused on January 14 after returning to the Western Cape. He was set to make his first court appearance last Monday however, he apparently fell sick hours before that and was hospitalised. “The case against the Brackenfell police officer who is charged with rape, has been postponed until February 2 for bail application. The accused is remanded in custody,” said National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Western Cape spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. It is alleged that the accused and a colleague had attended to a complaint by the young woman, who sought assistance in a case of domestic violence at her home. The officer allegedly came up with an idea to transport her to a safe place, which would be at a friend’s house, where the woman would rest. However, they started at the Brackenfell police station where she was supposed to first lodge a case against her partner. The accused officer is alleged to have instead insisted that the colleague remain behind so that he could transport the woman. He drove the woman to Stellenbosch where he allegedly ordered her to go into the back seat of the vehicle, raped her and threatened to kill her. Western Cape police confirmed they have also instituted an internal disciplinary process against the officer. The EFF in the Cape Metro said they will be protesting outside the court next month and continue to support the woman. The EFF’s Nyameko Valela who lives in the same community with the alleged victim said: “We will show solidarity and our support by demonstrating against bail and he must not get it because we don’t know what more he is capable of.” Valela said the 26-year-old was going through counselling. Cape Times