Cape Town - Conditions at the Khayelitsha District Hospital (KDH) are under scrutiny after various media posts emerged last week showing patients sleeping on the ground and chairs, waiting to be attended to. In a video published by the Cape Times, the video showed an elderly patient huddled on the floor and  used blankets to keep warm while being strapped to ventilators in the hospital’s asthma room. Khayelitsha Development Forum chairperson Ndithini Thyido said that the increase in population in the area is being overlooked and this affects health services, as a demand for medical attention increases. “The conditions at the Khayelitsha District Hospital are appalling. The shortage of medical staff and given that Khayelitsha as an area doesn’t have a psychiatric hospital doesn’t make the situation any better. “The KDH also runs a 72-hour sync service which leads to the undesired shortage of beds, as well as the walk-ins. The challenges contribute to medical attention being compromised and resulting in the images and videos making its rounds on social media,” said Thyido. Following a visit to the hospital, ANC spokesperson on health, Rachel Windvogel, said that the hospital management wasn’t at fault over the poor state of affairs. Windvogel cited a myriad of issues that resulted in the poor functioning of the hospital. “The population growth and influx of informal settlements has meant that there is an increased demand for services at the hospital. There is a need for expansion of the hospital. “The management explained that another challenge is the inefficiencies of local clinics. This means that a lot of illnesses that could be attended to in clinics are now redirected to the hospital.” She added that the board and management put forward requests to the provincial Health Department for additional budget for staff and beds, bu these requests were ignored.  “We have to start pointing fingers to the right doors. Provincial health should shoulder the blame for this situation. As the ANC, we want the provincial government to make available the additional R100 million requested by the hospital management and board to improve services.  “We also call on the provincial government to stop the closure of clinics in Khayelitsha and surroundings,” said Windvogel. Western Cape government communications officer for the Khayelitsha Eastern Sub-Structure, Abulele Dyasi, said that with  hospital remaining under severe pressure due the continued increase in patient intake, including mental health patients, Khayelitsha District Hospital management was doing everything possible to address the issue of bed and staff shortages, as well as service pressure.  “There are measures in place to monitor and evaluate extended hospital stays resulting in limited beds. The hospital adheres to a discharge policy to ensure that we accommodate acutely sick patients. “The Covid-19 pandemic, as well as alcohol and substance abuse, contributed to an increase in the number of patients requiring mental health services. “Therefore, the Western Cape Government Health is prioritising providing the necessary support for the hospital to cope with the increasing demand, keeping in mind the available limited resources, and to address staffing issues in a phased approach. “There are ongoing efforts aimed at addressing issues of resources and staffing at all levels including intermediate care facilities. Khayelitsha Hospital's Emergency Centre is under severe pressure.  “We are pleading with community members with minor ailments to first visit primary health care facilities (clinics), before visiting Khayelitsha District Hospital to ensure that clients needing life-saving interventions are attended to,” said Dyasi. Weekend Argus