I RECEIVED the J&J Covid vaccine at the end of July 2021. A week later I started having chest, arm, neck, shoulder and leg pains. After visiting my local GP for a possible cause I was advised that I was experiencing a heart attack and was later admitted to General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Regional Hospital (GJGMRH) in Stanger, KZN. I was treated and kept there for a few days and due to the nature of my medical condition, I was later referred to Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, KZN. Upon further testing at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, I was told that although there was evidence I suffered a heart attack all of the further tests showed that I had no further complications related to the heart. Since August last year, I made the doctors aware that the chest, arm, shoulder, leg, neck pain was continuously there. After the last procedure at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, an angiogram, I was told that I would be referred back to my base hospital (GJGMRH) because they would have to investigate further on the pains I complained about. After going through for a follow up check-up at General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Regional Hospital, numerous tests were done and eventually I was told that there wasn't anything further they could assist me with as they couldn't find the cause of the pains. They did however ask me to contact Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital to check if they could assist further as they had more capacity to investigate the problem further. I contacted the head of medical services Dr Mtshali and explained my situation and after a few follow-up emails I didn't get any feedback. I decided to escalate the matter to the MEC in KZN as I was starting to panic that my continued plea for medical assistance was not being heard. I was shortly contacted by Dr Mlita on behalf of the MEC to find out what the problem was. I explained myself and he advised that he had contacted Dr Mtshali at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. He later then advised me that she was going to put a report together which he would go through and get back to me. I explained to Dr Mlita that although he was waiting for the report the most sensible thing would be to call me in to run more tests to try and figure out what’s going on instead of waiting for the report and then reacting. I still haven't had feedback for over a week now. When I first got out of General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Regional Hospital I did report to SAHPRA as I thoought it could be the possible adverse effect of the Covid vaccine.This incident is being investigated by the National Immunisation Safety Expert Committee (NISEC) with the Department of Health (DOH). I was told that I would get feedback once the case was finalised since last December and now we are in the New Year and I haven't been contacted. I also went on to report this to the Health Ombudsman of South Africa who submitted a request for medical assistance to the Ethekwini Health Department but after numerous attempts of contacting them to check what the outcome was, I haven't yet had any answers. I went on to contact the SAHRC as well and also haven't had any feedback from them. I wrote to the MEC in KZN, the DG (director general) of DOH and the Minister of Health and still have had no positive feedback. I'm still suffering from ongoing chest pains and after numerous attempts to seek medical help not a single department that I contacted has been able to really assist whilst my health deteriorates on a daily basis. I have come up with after observation that if I don't walk a lot or climb too many stairs I can limit the pain to certain extent.The same applies to my situation at work. I have used this tactic to bring a little relief to my life as I am hoping that some form of help comes soon. My life has stopped in its tracks ever since I first experienced these pains.I don't know where else to take my story to as I desperately look for some sort of help. I have three dependants and should something happen to me I'm really afraid of what's going to happen to them. Mr D Dhaver, Durban Daily News