CAPE TOWN - Police are investigating the alleged assassination of taxi industry leader Mzoxolo Dibela, whose body was found on the sand dunes of Monwabisi beach with gunshot wounds to the head. Dibela was one of the leaders of the Congress of Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta), and also the Deputy Chairperson of the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) Western Cape. Police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi confirmed the motive for the attack on Monday was taxi-related. Swartbooi said Harare police attended a crime scene at Monwabisi beach at about 3pm on Monday. “They found the body of an unknown man who sustained gunshot wounds to his head. The victim was declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. The motive for the attack is taxi related. “The unknown suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. Harare police are investigating a murder,” Swartbooi said. Meanwhile, Cape Town transport authorities said the alleged assassination may be devastating for the resumption of the MyCiTi N2 Express service between Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha and the Cape Town CBD, as the operating contract with the N2 Company was to be signed this week. Mayco member for Transport, Rob Quintas condemned the killing. “This alleged hit may lead to renewed conflict between the minibus-taxi associations that operate across Cape Town. We are extremely concerned about the danger and disruption this may pose to commuters, operators, and all of those involved in the industry,” Quintas said. “I am pleading with all parties to remain calm, and to work together for the benefit of our commuters and those employed by the industry.” Quintas said he will be calling for a meeting between Codeta, the mayor and Transport and Public Works. “Due to this tragic event, we are now faced with huge uncertainty about the signing of this operating contract and the future of the N2 Express service. “The City will add additional visibility and resources for the monitoring of the minibus-taxi routes across the city,” Quintas said. Transport and Public Works MEC Daylin Mitchell said since his appointment in May 2021, he had been working very closely with Dibela in dealing with the challenges facing the taxi industry. “Mr Dibela formed part of the leadership delegations that I have been engaging in my efforts to end the taxi violence between CATA and CODETA. “He was a firm leader who showed dedication to change the image of the minibus taxi industry,” Mitchell said. Cape Times