MEC of Cultural Affairs and Sport Anroux Marais has been appointed as acting MEC of Community Safety following the suspension of Albert Fritz.  Premier Alan Winde suspended Fritz on Sunday night after serious allegations of misconduct were levelled against him. The Weekend Argus has since established that the misconduct is sexual assault allegations. “Today I have appointed Western Cape Minister of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Anroux Marais, as the acting Minister of Community Safety. Minister Marais will ensure that the Department of Community Safety continues to respond to communities’ safety needs and to drive our important safety priorities,” said Winde in a statement. Winde declined to confirm if indeed Fritz faces sexual assault allegations. He said he knows there have been many questions raised around the nature of the allegations which resulted in the suspension of Fritz.  “It is always my preference to be open and transparent with residents of the province and the media. “In this case, however, noting specific requests by the complainants for confidentiality, the seriousness of the allegations made and the rights of all parties to a fair and unprejudiced investigation into the veracity of the claims made, I may not do so at this stage.” He assured the public that he is treating the matter with the seriousness it deserves and will provide further updates as soon as he is able to. There are reports that there are other victims from as far as five years ago who levelled allegations of sexual assault against Fritz. There are questions as to why action is being taken now against him while others see this as a political ploy to dethrone him from his position and make way for recently sworn-in Dan Plato. “I have noted many rumours and reports by individuals who wish to politicise this matter,” said Winde. “I will not play politics with the wellbeing of people and would like to urge anyone who views this matter as a political football to show restraint, especially in consideration of the requests made by the complainants and the rights of all to a fair process.” DA Western Cape provincial chairperson Jaco Londt confirmed they had accepted the request from Fritz to step down from his position as the party’s provincial leader until the completion of the investigation into allegations levelled against him. “Mr Fritz will provide his full co-operation and has stepped down to allow the investigation to proceed unhindered. “The provincial executive committee has actioned this request, and the deputy leader, Minister Tertuis Simmers, will be acting leader for the time being.” Weekend Argus