DURBAN - A DURBAN woman is overwhelmed after becoming the first deaf graduand, to use South African Sign Language as a means of communication, to acquire an undergraduate and postgraduate qualification in the history of the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN). Voloshni Annamallay, 24, who is due to graduate with an honours degree in criminology and forensic studies this year, said that she developed a passion for criminology after a conversation with a friend which intrigued her about the subject matter. Annamallay, who attended Fulton School for the Deaf in Gillitts, said: “I am the only deaf child in my family. All the members of my family are hearing. I went to one of the best schools available for the deaf. On her field of study, she said: “Well, my interest sparked whilst I was in my junior years of university when I spoke to one of my friends. The way he spoke about criminology and explained the concept really intrigued me. I then decided that this is something I’m greatly interested in and took the leap in studying the degree. “Additionally, I always loved observing, discovering and investigating. My friends would often say that I would be great in CSI or NCIS, and that’s when I knew this truly is my passion.” She said that she was proud to be the first deaf graduand to use South African Sign Language as a means of communication. “I have no words to describe how excited I am about this. I’m glad that I could be part of the history of UKZN in representing deaf culture and awareness.” Annamallay said that a strong family support system was key to her achieving academic excellence. “The support from family and friends has been so important throughout my tertiary journey. Support from my immediate family and close friends has been immense and very much appreciated. They were amazing.” She said she wants to encourage deaf people to explore fields of study of their choice. “My aim is to be a good forensic scientist. I also aspire to be part of blending the hearing and deaf world to work together, because I want the worlds to unite. I would also like to have deaf people explore a variety of fields of study available to them despite not being able to hear. I hope for a world with no prejudice against deaf people.” Normah Zondo, executive director: corporate relations at UKZN, said the university was proud of her. “Annamallay has not only achieved greatly for herself but for UKZN and the deaf community as a whole. Her academic journey has also given UKZN critical experience in supporting future deaf students who access higher education.” Zondo said all of Annamallay’s studies at UKZN had been communicated through South African Sign Language, adding that with the support of a note taker and an interpreter, she had successfully completed her qualification in the requisite time. THE MERCURY