Cape Town - He’s connecting east Africa to Khayelitsha – and now his passion has taken a spot among shops in the southern suburbs. Until recently, entrepreneur Sikelela “Siki” Dibela had never thought  he would run a business in an area where he started as a dishwasher. “I still can’t get my head around the meeting which made all this possible,” Dibela said pointing to his Koffee Kafe. Dibela ’s main focus was on growing business to Siki’s Koffee Kafe, operating from his mother’s garage in Khayelitsha since 2016. Siki’s Koffee Kafe, which opened in December, is now nestled among bespoke clothing boutiques in Cavendish Lane.  “I still can't believe that I now have a business here. I constantly pinch myself. I’ve helped start businesses for other people here. Now my dream of owning one has become a reality,” Dibela says. Businesswoman Mandy Tinkler’s idea for a coffee shop sparked a chain of events that led to Dibela’s name being put forward. Dibela’s coffee culture started after he dropped out of school in Grade 9. “I worked as a dishwasher at one of the coffee shops in Claremont. I worked my way up to eventually becoming a store manager. Then after the 2010 Fifa Soccer World Cup I got an opportunity to work in the UK in the coffee industry for two years .” While in London, Dibela got the idea of a coffee business back home. “Coming back in 2012, I had the dream of starting my own coffee house and to build a family business. But I couldn’t access funding and then a year later a coffee cafe was started in Khayelitsha by other people. I started mine in 2016,” said Dibela. He took to crowdfunding to raise money to buy the equipment for his business. “The first initiative was to raise money for a second coffee machine so I could start hosting events and to get the word out there about the business. The second, was to buy a roasting machine.” The green beans are sourced from Africa’s coffee powerhouses – Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda and Burundi and roasted in Khayelitsha. “Now I am able to create all types of coffee for my clients,” said Dibela. He said most of what was passed off and sold as coffee in the city was actually not. He wanted to “educate and encourage” people to know more about coffee and what they were consuming. After “smashing” the stereotypes associated with certain kind of businesses in the township market, Dibela had to find ways of marketing his business. “I also wanted to create a safe space for people to have conversations, hang out together. So I started bringing the community together to expose them to coffee culture. I started hosting events, like poetry nights to create awareness and appreciation of this coffee brew,” said Dibela. When the business started it wasn’t doing well but he stuck to his dream. “I had to make it work, for myself, my family and the community. Now I have employed about five people, including my mother. My mom was also in the food industry for 25 years and when Covid-19 hit she joined the business, expanding the offerings with pastries that go well with coffee.”  The  Covid-19 pandemic and  constant load shedding have affected the business. But through a collaboration with other entrepreneurs in the township, Dibela kept the business in Khayelitsha afloat.  The Cool Khayelitsha Collective saw the delivery of gift packs including his coffee, honey by another entrepreneur and spinach bread  to clients. What started as a small coffee shop, has now expanded into other ventures – a roastery, internet cafe and co-working space. While there was still “bureaucratic red tape” to be overcome to expand the business, Dibela remained optimistic and continues to see possibilities.“I like to surround myself with positive people. I would also like to inspire other people who feel they are trapped in poor socio-economic environments to see beyond the limitations,” Dibela said.