DURBAN - A pensioner, 73, was robbed and assaulted while she was on her way to the hospital on Monday. On Monday, reports and CCTV footage emerged after a pensioner in Chatsworth was robbed and assaulted. According to Chatsworth Crime Watch, the pensioner lost her original identity document, South African Social Security Agency card and cash. It is alleged  the incident took place at 5.30am on High Terrace, Unit 11 in Chatsworth. Reports indicate the suspect was driving a silver Ford Fiesta. In the video, the elderly woman is seen standing on the side of the road for a few seconds. A car drives past at the same time as the suspect approaches in his vehicle. He stops in front of her and starts talking to her. She is even seen bending over while responding to the suspect. The suspect then exits his vehicle, grabs hold of her bag, hits her twice, walks away with her bag while she falls to the ground. The suspect then drives off while she picks herself up. Later, Chatsworth Crime Watch said they managed to locate the victim and offered assistance where possible. The group said the pensioner was such a wonderful person. “The aunty is suffering with some chest pains due to the attack,” the group said. “She was en-route to the hospital (this morning) for treatment (OPD)… when this incident happened.” It said the suspect was an African man, big build, height of approximately 1.8m, wearing a beige jersey and grey shorts at the time of the attack/robbery. “The suspect had stopped next to the victim, opened the front passenger window and asked her whether she was waiting for a taxi. She told him there was a taxi coming to fetch her. The taxi has gone to fill up,” the group said. “When the suspect heard that, he jumped off immediately and ran towards her - attacked the victim, snatched her handbag and sped off.” Chatsworth Crime Watch also said they would be fetching her and her son on Tuesday to offer assistance in getting the necessary documents and cards where possible. Police had not commented by the time of publication. Daily News