Durban – The National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) is expected to make its first court appearance in the case involving the rescue of two lion cubs, Karlos and Ivana, in 2019, on Wednesday. According to the NSPCA, Karlos and Ivana, were in poor health and living in such deplorable conditions when they were found that the NSPCAs Wildlife Protection Unit had to remove the cubs in 2019. The NSPCA said the animals were not only sick and left without adequate veterinary treatment, but there were also other concerns such as inadequate shelter, small enclosures and unhygienic living conditions. “The cubs are set to turn 3 on February 14, which is a clear indication of their determination to survive despite the neglect they were subjected to by their previous owner,” the NSPCA said. The organisation laid criminal charges against the owner and the staff of the facility on May 2, 2019. “We have finally been set to appear in court today, January 26, 2022, for the very first time regarding this case, after almost three years of constantly following up on the docket,” the NSPCA said. “The NSPCA will not give up seeking justice for what these innocent creatures were subjected to under the care of the lion farmer they were removed from. The case may be far from over, but we know that together with the support and encouragement of the public, the promise of a fair hearing from the judicial system, as well as the rewarding feeling of seeing the cubs recover, we will see this case to the very end.” The cubs remain under the watch of Dr Peter Caldwell and the team from Panthera Africa Big Cat Sanctuary in the Western Cape, where the cubs live. In 2019, sister publication Cape Times reported that in May 2019 inspectors from NSPCA Wildlife Protection Unit obtained a warrant after receiving a complaint regarding lions in the North West that were in a shocking condition. When inspectors arrived at the site, they were horrified to find two lion cubs unable to walk and showing signs that they were suffering from a neurological condition. The NSPCA removed the two cubs for assessment and veterinary treatment by a specialist carnivore veterinarian. Other issues such as small enclosures and inadequate shelter, no provision of water, overcrowding, and filthy and parasitic conditions were noted in the camps that contained lions, caracals, tigers and leopards. Twenty-seven of the lions had mange and the caracals were obese and unable to properly groom themselves. Daily News