Council worker and actor, the Cape Flats’ very own Uncle Joe has become somewhat of a local singing sensation. His real name is Joseph Mitchell and he has now pinned his hopes on also becoming a pop star and made it his mission to fulfil a dream of singing on national TV and becoming a singing sensation at age 61.  Mitchell from Welcome Estate in Athlone, who has been a civil servant for more than 20 years, has landed a spot in the top three of musician Loki Rothman’s Afrikaans singing competition Wat Dit Vat. The 13-episode show started as a social experiment on Instagram during lockdown and has since delivered three popstars who have generated more than 10 000 views for each of their music videos on YouTube. On Sunday the winner of the show will be crowned when the show airs on kykNET, DStv channel 144, where Mitchell is hopeful he will beat rivals, Edo Mostert, 29, and Michelle Mountjoy, 26. Being a part of the show was a big bucket-list item he could tick off. He is also an actor, having featured in movies such as Jantjie Kom Huistoe, Mama Jack and KykNet’s popular soapie Arendsvlei. He jokingly told Weekend Argus: “For years, while I was acting, I prepared myself mentally for phone calls like this. Now I’m getting it left, right and centre, from all you media people, and I love it.” Mitchell said he always had a passion for singing, remembering the bliss of singing with his family. It was the voice of his grandmother singing in church that got him going. “I learned how to play guitar as a child and soon found myself entering competitions and auditioning for parts,” he said.  “I entered every competition there was, you name it, but I just never got the call back.” Until one day Mitchell saw the advert for Rothman’s show on television last year. “After so many tries and not getting called back, I had my doubts, but I thought to myself, just throw in you application, just do it for the sake of trying,” he said.  “Then three days later I got a call, and I was informed that I would be part of the 13 episodes – my dreams were coming true.” Mitchell said he quickly had to adapt to working without a script. body.copy...: “There was a day I felt like what am I doing? The day we had to write our own song and sing it in front of an audience of famous people like Early B, Karin Kortjie, Hunter Kennedy, Loki and Emo Adams.  “Then it hit me again, that I am living my dream and the next day I realised everything was fine.” Mitchell joked that his appearances on television drams and adverts never got him as much attention as his budding singing career.  “And that’s the problem with my age group, we don’t take chances because we become so comfortable. Guys, nothing bad will happen to you because of trying something new or trying again. These days older people live until 90 years old, so that means I still have 30 years to change the world!” Qqeberha-born rapper Earl Swartz, more commonly known as Early B rapper, who worked with Mitchell only had good things to say about the man’s talent. “I’m thankful, honoured and proud of the work Uncle Joe put in. His music video and song is unbelievable. I’m just so thankful that I got to work with him.” Mitchell’s song Like Nie Die Laaitie Nie is available to stream on Apple Music, Spotify and Deezer and has been more than 20 444 listens since its release on December 27.