POLICE are investigating the motive behind the death of a 39-old-man whose body was found with multiple stab wounds near a canal at the Barcelona informal settlement. Gugulethu police responded to a report in Barcelona on Tuesday morning where the body of the unknown man was discovered. His name has not yet been released.  Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said the body was discovered at around 6:30am.  “Gugulethu police responded to a complaint earlier on Tuesday at around 6:30 am. Upon arrival at the crime scene, at the Barcelona Canal Behind Lwazi (Primary) School, they found the body of an unknown male in the water who sustained stab wounds to his body.” “The 39-year-old victim was declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. “The unknown suspect/s fled the scene and are yet to be arrested, '' said Swartbooi. Ward 40 councillor, Bongani Ngcombolo, who also lives in Barcelona, said he was saddened by the incident which highlighted the low police visibility in the area.  “Our area is full of crime, we are very frustrated because there are many bodies that have been found in Barcelona and it has become a common thing. Some of them were shot, some of them stabbed and it is a mess. We are very frustrated,” he said.  “I would say in terms of security we have a serious problem, because police are not really visible in our areas. There is very high crime in that area where the body was found. “Our relationship with police is not bad, but at the same time, we have a problem that police are not visible.” Community Policing Forum (CPF) secretary Nokwanda Makwela agreed that Barcelona had become more dangerous.  “As CPF we condemn the murders that are taking place in that vicinity and we feel strongly that it affects the broader Gugulethu badly,” she said.  “We have identified that place as a hotspot. We do our best to intervene through our structure of the Neighbourhood Watch to assist where they can. Makwela said during the festive season a project to educate patrons frequenting shebeens on alcohol abuse was initiated. It now runs every Thursday to Sunday from 4pm to 11pm. This was aimed at curbing violence that often stemmed from fights at at local taverns and drinking holes.  “We educate people to drink responsibly and that at a certain time they must consider going home. We are running that project as part of our crime prevention initiative,” she said. Anyone with information on this matter is asked to call Crime stop on 08600 10111.