Cape Town - Inspired by Mary Sibande’s artwork, Queen Sophie, a compelling piece of literature has been making its rounds on social media, due to Herman H. Le Roux’s realistic observations of the grim realities of domestic workers in South Africa. Le Roux’s passion for poetry arose from his life experiences after he opted to turn his life around from drugs and alcohol, and now drives conversations around addiction, mental health, animal rights, and civil rights to push for change in society. The poem titled I, Domestic Worker takes the reader on the journey of a domestic worker who wakes up in the early hours of the morning, takes a taxi regardless of the “rain or cold” and experiences hardships, due to little pay. “I felt the need to write this poem because I think many people are still unaware or wish to deny the plight of domestic workers. In some minds, time has passed, when in fact, they are still exploited to this day as cheap labour. “I think in the past, they were treated badly often. It may have changed today, but I do feel that a great number of them are still treated badly. They are most certainly underpaid as cheap labour. I would hope that they are treated as skilled women (and men) who perform a vital job and who should be treated and paid with respect, dignity, and kindness," said Le Roux. With the poem speaking from a domestic worker’s point of view, South African Domestic Service and Allied Workers Union (SADSAWU) general secretary Myrtle Witbooi said that when she saw the poem, she was glad to see how the domestic workers’ plight was expressed in such a manner and hoped that the poem could reach the right people, and get them to understand the sacrifices domestic workers make to feed their own families.  “The poem painted a clear picture of our lives from the days of slavery until today. All we want is a decent life for our family. We want recognition as workers,  respect as workers and the implementation of our rights as workers. “I sincerely hope that employers will read this poem and see who we are and the sacrifices we make to care for their families. Some of the employers don’t even know if we have families and this is the unfortunate reality of our life,” said Witbooi. With thousands sharing his piece on the life of a domestic worker, Le Roux hopes the poem can help switch the narrative about domestic workers and end the days of cheap labour.  “In this day and age, and how the world is banding together looking for change, I hope that people learn from the poem that domestic workers are also people who just wish to earn a living. “It would be my hope that people understand that domestic workers also work hard to sustain themselves and their families. It would also be my hope that they are educated, so that they get the chance to learn better skills and be treated in a fair and dignified manner," said Le Roux. Weekend Argus