Cape Town - Reading breeds curiosity and critical thinking. This is the ethos and belief of the staff at Elnor Primary School in Elsies River. To promote reading, the school always believed having a library on the grounds was a great tool and asset for pupils. Sadly, a few years ago gangsters burnt down several classrooms at the school and the library made way for an additional classroom. Now thanks to GrandWest and Breadline, the school has received a new prefabricated library. GrandWest donated R287 000 and Breadline Africa R25 000 towards assisting Elnor Primary. MEC for Education Debbie Schäfer said they were grateful to organisations such as Breadline and businesses like GrandWest who ploughed back into the community. Schäfer said the library would touch many minds and lives.  “The school has an existing relationship with GrandWest, who worked with Breadline to provide the library. GrandWest supports a number of education initiatives in our province, and Breadline has worked with various donors to place libraries at other Western Cape schools. “The school believes that having a school library is integral to the teaching and learning process, and enhances personal development in young children, and promotes curiosity, innovation and critical thinking. “They also emphasised that it endorses desirable study habits in learners, and offers children a safe space in a community riddled with violence and antisocial activities. “The WCED appreciates the contributions of GrandWest, Breadline and others to the schools of our province. “Their support is vital given the severe budget constraints the department faces. We wish the learners of Elnor Primary many happy hours of reading and learning in their library.” The school has 800 pupils, many whose parents struggle to make ends meet. Educator Dillon Henwood said classrooms had been burnt a few years ago and that they were now left only with books after the library was used as a classroom.  “The school had a library some years ago, but it had to be converted into a classroom after a row of classrooms were burnt down by gangsters and have not been replaced yet, “There are only a few books, most of them well used and outdated, which is why a new library and suitable books were much needed.” Principal Mark Agulhas said literacy at the school needed attention and that teachers were working hard to change the narrative and were grateful for the new library. “The literacy and mathematics rate were lower than expected, but the teachers have been making good progress. Having a fully functional library that will be able to accommodate an afternoon programme will help significantly in 2022.” Weekend Argus