Cape Town - Chapter  2 in The Bill of Rights states that everyone is equal before the law and have the right to equal protection and benefits such as access to courts.  Those however without capital do not enjoy this right. A young attorney from Wellington, Dale Dreyden, noticed that not everyone enjoyed the right to representation before the courts. He seized the opportunity to offer pro bono  services to his community in an attempt to close the gap.  “I am from Wellington, an impoverished community. So I know what it’s like not having access to things you need as a person.” Upon graduation Dreyden started Dreyden Attorneys where he now offers free consultation services. “The reason I am offering pro bono services is that during my three years of training as a candidate attorney, I saw first-hand how less fortunate people are taken advantage of in the legal process. They do not have access to quality and dependable legal advice.” To make things easier for people who are geographically far from him, Dreyden also started consulting via social media. “I am providing free consultation services via any social media app, thereby making it easier,  and more cost effective, to receive quality advice without incurring travel expenses.” He also uses social media to offer legal advice on matters ordinary people may face especially with the police, like searches without warrants.  He said his firm is open to any person seeking legal advice, whatever their location. He has already partnered with another firm that recognised his methodology and wanted to do the same. “The response has been very positive. I have received numerous requests for advice and assistance from drawing up of documents and the like. I plan on eventually employing like-minded attorneys.” He said his family has been supportive ever since he started offering his services. Community member Ricardo McKenzie said one of the lessons the youth should learn is practising Ubuntu.  “If we all can offer our skills to communities without expecting anything in return, we would have a better country. It is commendable what Dreyden is doing and people who can afford legal services must pay him so that he can reach more people. We have police officers that abuse their power because they know many people cannot afford litigation. With people like Dreyden, they will be kept in check.” Weekend Argus