Cape Town - Many creators blew up on TikTok in 2021 and have steadily grown their following and content from month to month. If 2021 is anything to go by, we cannot wait to see what they’re going to achieve on the app in 2022. We’ve rounded up the five creators you should look out for. Farren Watt (@farren.watt) Farren Watt is a reverend at the Dutch Reformed Church in Lambert’s Bay, a small fishing town located 280km north of Cape Town. Watt, who is a native Afrikaans speaker, has taken to the app to show her followers what her daily life as a reverend looks like. Her first videos on the app included short clips of her preaching but have now changed to a variety of content. Watt has since included daily vlogs and tried to show her followers that just because she’s a reverend, doesn’t mean they should treat her any differently. The Lambert’s Bay reverend has a love for shoes, which is often shown in a room in her house where nearly 100 pairs are on display. Watt has also shown church life in her videos, including youth evenings, the annual church bazaar and church council meetings. Her fiancé, Bradley Cloete, occasionally makes an appearance in her videos. With Watt’s childlike nature and friendliness, she’s blown up on the app, especially in the last quarter of the year. We cannot wait to see what she’s going to do on the app in 2022. Kelly Coopstadt (@constancekellycoopstadt) Kelly is an au pair in the US but is originally from Cape Town. She shares her au pair journey in her TikTok content and especially enjoys speaking in Afrikaans for her South African followers. Coopstadt shares videos of her experiences with the children she takes care of and the difference in American and South African culture, especially when it comes to basic tasks like cooking and cleaning. Although her content is mostly made up of her experiences with her host family, Coopstadt also varies her content by taking part in trendy dance challenges. The young creator has built her online community by sharing advice to aspiring au pairs and doesn’t hide the reality of what being an au pair is like. She’s given aspiring au pairs step by step advice on how to apply and how to get your documents in order for an international move. Yasien Fredericks (@yasienyayafrederi) Yasien is the funny guy who exists in every friend group, the one who is always joking and who always manages to find humour in every situation. His content includes vlogs, day-to-day advice and sharing in general nostalgia. Fredericks has become known for his budget cooking videos where he shares recipes for under R100 and shows his followers how to prepare meals. The young creator is also known for his potty mouth, especially in his cooking videos. He always adds a disclaimer before each video to forewarn his followers of what’s to come. His first video of the day is always a daily epiphany with his first cigarette for the day and occasionally a cup of coffee. His girlfriend, Zareena Jonkers, occasionally features and his followers enjoy seeing the pair together on screen. Laila Beukes (@queen___laila___) Laila is a high-school teacher who has a fashion sense that is ready for the runway. Dressed in international fashion brands like Shein and Fashion Nova, Beukes’ outfits have caused many to do a double-take when she posts her outfit of the day on TikTok. While there has been some outrage about whether her attire is appropriate for a teacher, Beukes has ignored the negative comments and continued sharing her content. Her mother, Rabia Beukes (@Rabakes on TikTok), often features in her videos and shares her thoughts on the naysayers. The pair also go shopping together and Rabia always shares her advice on how to get the best value for your money. While Beukes has gotten used to getting flak for her choice of outfits each day, her care-free nature has shown that there are many ways to express yourself and that fashion is one of them. Beukes also shares videos of how she does her job and the way she teaches her learners. Natheerah Solomon (@natheerah_solomon) Natheerah has a cheerful spirit that many of her followers love her for. Her videos encompass daily vlogs of her life, speaking about her small business where she sells scarves, cooking videos and trying out food and snacks from different spots around Cape Town. Solomon, 22, is married to her husband, Yaseen and she often shows what she’s prepared for supper for the two of them. Solomon, who makes cooking look easy, also offers her followers tips and tricks on budget meals, and how to cook meals that take little to no time to make. Her husband also has a fruit stall at the start of the Constantia Nek hiking trail. Solomon also creates videos of what her husband has in stock, with prices, for her followers. The entertaining creator also shares tips on how she dresses modestly, and how her followers can too. She shares the shops where she buys her clothes and also shows them how to style them. Weekend Argus