CAPE TOWN - More than 2 400 hectares of vegetation has burned near Kleinmond in the Overberg, as a mountain fire  continued to rage amid scorching temperatures on Sunday. The wildfire broke out on Saturday evening. Resources from Working on Fire, CapeNature and the Department of Forestry, Fisheries, and the Environment, were used in efforts to quench the flames that were being fanned by the wind. No evacuation order was issued by Sunday, however, one voluntary evacuation took place. Overstrand mayor Annelie Rabie applauded the firefighting crews for their work as no damage to homes was reported and no structures were lost. “The crews were able to contain the fires that came close to properties.  “Our local teams were tired so the outside assistance helped. We are humbled by the outpouring support for food, eye drops and other things that our teams needed.” Overberg District Municipality Incident commander, Reinard Geldenhuys, said by 4pm on Sunday that the fires were not contained yet. “Early this morning the fire line moved down to Kleinmond and Heuningkloof and structural protection was required.  “The fire is burning actively in the mountain and between the mountain and the R44, in the direction of the Arrabella golf estate. “During the night resources from the City of Cape Town joined the fight. The aerial resources are already deployed to assist with our suppression efforts. Additional specialist ground crews and support from Overberg District are still on the lines with our Overstrand teams,” said Geldenhuys. He urged the public to avoid the area and not to stop on the roads. Working on Fire spokesperson, Limakatso Khalianyane said :“Ground crews, firefighters from Working on Fire as well as other firefighting agencies are working tirelessly to put out the blaze. Six inbound teams are from Robertson, Paarl, Somerset, and three from Grabouw. The three Working on Fire aerial resources consist of a spotter plane that is performing the air traffic control function for the two choppers who are water bombing the flames.” Khalianyane said aerial crews  had to withdraw due to the wind and they would continue to be on standby in order to assist. Cape Times