DA PROVINCIAL leader Albert Fritz has denied receiving an email or letter from the  Western Cape’s opposition party’s Cameron Dugmore demanding minutes of DA’s meetings which shows the DA practising cadre employment. The ANC’s Dugmore on Monday accused the DA of having double-standards and using cadre employment in DA-controlled municipalities.  Dugmore has written to Fritz demanding minutes of party meetings where instructions were sent to municipalities governed by the party on whom to employ and whom not to. According to Dugmore, the DA did not follow the legal processes of appointment at a municipal level. In a Facebook post Dugmore further alleges that he has been asking for copies of minutes and DA deployment letters sent to DA caucuses in the Western Cape since 2009. The move comes after the DA recently successfully pushed for the publication of ANC  deployment committee meeting minutes, putting a spotlight on the party's involvement in the placement of its comrades in key positions in government and state entities. Dugmore believed the DA should also be exposed for practising cadre deployment in places where it governs. To prove his point, he released a letter from the DA to the George Municipality in 2018 discussing the vacancy of director of corporate services. Dugmore stated that he has given Fritz until January 31 to provide all the information, along with posting an image of the letter sent to the MEC. However, Fritz yesterday confirmed to the Weekend Argus that he had not received any such letter or email. "I have noted reports of a letter sent by Mr Dugmore MPL to me in my capacity as provincial leader of the Democratic Alliance, but should like to place on record that, to the best of my knowledge, to date I have not actually received the email or letter in question from Mr Dugmore. “As such, the onus remains on Mr Dugmore to prove any allegations he wishes to make.” Fritz also welcomed Dugmore to make an application for access to information in terms of the appropriate legislation and said that the DA would be happy to cooperate with any legal processes. “What we will not, however, do is engage in allegations and hearsay in the media, which really amounts to petty politics and a distraction from the real issues facing our country. “Amongst these is Mr Dugmore's ANC deployment committee which has led to the decimation of important state institutions which have cost the South African taxpayer billions of rand. I can assure you quite unequivocally that the DA does not have a deployment committee."