A Philippi-based maths tutor has translated and published a study guide in Xhosa to help  pupils better understand the subject in their mother tongue.  Nkululo Gugu, 29,  launched the Ikasi Mathematics study guide this week which is aimed at simplify maths concepts for Grade 11 and 12 pupils who are struggling with the subject. The Khayelitsha resident said this was a way for Xhosa pupils to have  a better understanding with a guide written in their mother tongue. The number of pupils who passed mathematics nationally increased slightly from 53.6% to 57.6%  from the previous while the Western Cape also saw a slight increase up to 72.4%. Gugu, who runs a maths and science tutoring company in Philippi called IKasi Tutor, said he has made it his mission to ensure that pupils from all backgrounds could have the tools to excel.  "I saw that most students lack the understanding of some basic words used in mathematics and because it is not in their language and it is not easily grasped," he said. "As I was writing the study guide I was also implementing it with my students. They loved the idea and thought it should be implemented at schools because it explains (the subject) in a language they understand,” he said. Grade 11 pupil at Malibu High School Lelethu Kanayo said the guide would help her as she was not fluent in English.  “It is going to help me and many other learners that speak Xhosa as a home language, especially us who are not good in English. “It will also make it easier for parents to help their kids with calculations and home works because it is written in a language they fully understand,” she said. Grade 12 pupil Zimi Sodlongwana travels from Bloubergstrand where she lives for tutoring classes in Philippi regularly and she said the guide would help her. “As a Xhosa-speaking learner, it will be extremely useful to be able to refer to both my English and Xhosa study guide as the one may explain it better than the other. “It is also highly beneficial because although English is a universal language it is important for younger generations to ensure that our South African indigenous languages are recognised and implemented in our schools,” she said. Gugu who is originally from Queenstown in the Eastern Cape is studying towards a bachelor of sciences degree with the University of South Africa, specialising in maths and chemistry. He also holds a chemical engineering diploma from the Cape Peninsula University of Technology. He said pupils preferred the guide to be mixed with simple English concepts to be accompanied by a Xhosa dialect that was used on a day-to-day basis and not the academic kind. Gugu now plans to work on having his work could be included at schools.  Publisher Zimkhitha Zilo whose company, Uhlanga Books published the guide, said he pushed Gugu to take on this venture.  “When Nkululo told me about a bilingual mathematics study guide, I was blown away and I saw another solution to a black child's educational dilemma.” The study guide is available to interested parties at a cost of R220.