Cape Town - Advocate Jennifer Williams has been appointed to conduct the investigation into sexual harassment allegations that have been made against suspended MEC Albert Fritz.  Premier Alan Winde announced that the Legal Services Unit of the Western Cape Government approached the State Attorney, requesting that independent legal counsel be appointed to conduct an external investigation into the veracity of the allegations made against Fritz. “We have now received confirmation that Advocate Jennifer Williams has been appointed to conduct the investigation,” he said in a statement. “I will communicate the outcome of the investigation and take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate upon its finalisation. I have full faith that this investigation will be conducted with the integrity that it deserves.” On Sunday evening, Winde announced that Fritz had been suspended with immediate effect after serious allegations pertaining to his conduct were brought to his attention. Although not confirming what the allegations were, sources have confirmed that it’s sexual harassment allegations by a number of employees that worked under the MEC. Winde said he was made aware of the allegations in November. Former intern Miché Solomon also known as Zephany Nurse who worked under Fritz announced on Facebook last night that she was willing to testify if asked to do so. Solomon was stolen from her cot at Groote Schuur Hospital in 1997. The truth only came out over 17 years later. During the high-profile kidnapping trial, Fritz was MEC for Social Development. He offered Solomon emotional support during the trial and a job as an intern in his office because she was interested in social work. ANC Western Cape spokesperson Sifiso Mntsweni said they will be approaching the police to open a case against Fritz. “The premier sat on this information for some time in his attempt to manage the internal dynamics within the DA, (but) has today arrogated himself the role of being an investigator, prosecutor and judge.” “We call on the premier to remove Mr Fritz from the Executive completely and give law enforcement agencies the space to deal with these very serious matters. Internal DA politics cannot take precedence over the fight against gender-based violence and the need to rid our society of sex pests and lustful public representatives who abuse their positions to fulfil their sexual desires.” Weekend Argus