WARNING: GRAPHIC VIDEO FOOTAGE DURBAN - People have been angered by a video of a man shooting cattle in a kraal. On Friday, the NSPCA posted on its Facebook page that it was seeking information about the cattle shooter. In the video, a man inside a kraal, armed with what appears to be a shotgun, is seen shooting a herd of cattle. In the background, people watching the incident comment and laugh as the cows hit the ground. Although the soundtrack to the video is largely inaudible, Toti Wilds said the persons in the background were speaking isiZulu, which suggested the incident happened in KwaZulu-Natal. “According to one of our members, this is what can be understood from the conversations: this guy paid lobola to these people with these cows, his woman cheated on him with another man, he failed to get his cows back, so he decided to shoot them.” The NSPCA said it received the footage last week. “It was later revealed across social media platforms that the man seen shooting the cattle had committed the deed seemingly in an act of revenge. It is alleged that his wife (whom he had paid lobola for with the cattle) had been unfaithful to him,” the NSPCA said. The organisation said it was unclear how many cattle had been shot. “One animal was shot in the face, and the next animal was shot in the abdomen, and it is evident that both animals did not die immediately. There are no follow-up shots to indicate that the animals were killed outright,” the NSPCA said. It said an investigation had been conducted by the NSPCA, but all attempts to establish the particulars of the shooter had been unsuccessful. “We therefore request anyone with information about the whereabouts of the individual seen in the video to please contact the NSPCA Farm Animal Protection Unit on 011 907 3590, or to email farm@nspca.co.za. All information will be treated in the strictest confidence.” Commenting on the post, many Facebook users said they were disgusted by the incident. Barbara Kingsley said it was disgusting to hear them laughing in the background. “This is a savage act,” she posted. Mercia Smith said “bloody disgusting”. Que Pasa said “how utterly disgusting”. Jill Hind said: “WTF. I hope someone has information on this idiot!!” Khosana Moerdyk Kamo questioned the man shooting his own cattle: “Domkop.” Daily News