CAPE TOWN - For nearly 12 years, Ottery residents have pleaded with the City to do something about a dangerous intersection in their suburb.  They say vehicles turning from Link road into Ottery Road are at high risk of being hit by fast oncoming traffic and there have been many accidents at the intersection, dubbed by one resident "the corner of hell". Over the past three years, resident and activist Keith Blake has been in contact with the City’s senior traffic engineer in an effort to try and have the matter resolved, but to no avail. In correspondence dated August 2020, the official said there was no budget to do anything “at this stage”. In November that year, the official added: “Further, I have requested the District Roads Infrastructure Management Department to provide me with an estimate for implementation so we can attempt to establish a budget.” Blake has not received any feedback since then. He said: “I’ve been fighting for three years to get stop signs [installed] to get the people coming from Ottery Road to stop and give people coming to Link Road a gap. There’s been so many accidents, I call it the ’corner of hell’. "I’ve been struggling with the City’s engineer, but all the technical excuses offered by the City are no longer valid or make sense, as nothing, absolutely nothing, is in place to address vehicles coming from Link Road into Ottery Road, or vehicles turning left from Ottery Road into Link Road. "Daily, we see families run the dangerous gauntlet of this corner. There is also an informal settlement, Freedom Park, very close by, and the children have to cross that road to go to school... two children have already been knocked over.” He suggested a traffic circle be built.  “In Plumstead, where they faced the same issue, they built a circle; why can’t they do it here?” he asked. Ward 66 councillor William Akim said the problem had existed for almost 12 years, from before his time in office. “We received complaints; it has been an issue with the City and roads department for almost 12 years. Many accidents have taken place down that road. In the past, you were supposed to turn left and right because of the [number] of accidents. Cars coming down Link Road jump the stop and then cars coming down Ottery Road jump into them,” he said. Akim blamed drivers for not “adhering” to the rules of the road, saying the City had placed a sign that only allowed drivers to turn left onto Ottery Road. “The City also had traffic officers stationed at the intersection.  “The amount of drivers that don’t adhere to road regulations, they turn right.  “The roads department sent notifications to people that complain.  “That particular road is earmarked for the MyCity for the long run; for the time being, we need to bear with the City, they are going to address that hotspot,” he said. In email correspondence between Blake and the City, the City’s senior traffic engineer said the Transport Department undertook an investigation of the Link Road/Ottery Road intersection in 2011. The City did not respond to requests for comment by deadline on Monday. Cape Times