DURBAN - With the petrol price going up yet again, scholar transport too is going up. But Bluff parents believe that is no excuse for anyone charging R1 200 for school transport. Over the weekend a woman posted an advertisement in a Bluff community group about the transport service. The post read: “... We are 2 female drivers doing transport for kids only in the bluff. To school and from school. It will be R1200 a month. Payable before we start to drive your kids. We are reliable and your kids will be in good hands…” (sic). It also provided a contact number for the women. Parents reacted saying that the price was ’ridiculously high’, with some pointing out that pupils were often not attending school full-time. Shaakira Vesagie said most children only went to school for two weeks a month. Pre-Covid they were paying R450 to R500 for a full month. Therefore she did not know where the women had ’pulled their prices from’. Daleen Meyer said “That is kinda steep, I pay R400 a month pick up and drop off, I know a few that are in that price range or even R500. Just suggesting that you reconsider your price structure here.” Sherrene Roxanne Reid said: “I’m sorry but that's ridiculously expensive average price is 700-800.” Jevan Naidoo said he was paying R850 per month for two children from the Bluff to Merebank. Zoë Courtney Canham said children attend school for 10 days a month. “I must pay for mine and your kids transport? Haibo sisi. Nee dankie. Also, do you both have a PDP for your reliability status??” “How do we trust you're reliable with our kids when you cant even be trusted by us for proper costing??? Tsek” Jeanine Roach even said if a parent used a kombi taxi for their children to and from school, it would cost them R280 per month. Cheryl Smith said: “But you know what I actually find very funny here is that all the people who crucified me for saying that a certain persons pricing for book covering was ridiculous are the very same people who are saying this pricing is ridiculous! It's all ridiculous!” Monique Basson said “... her post says ‘in Bluff’ so one would assume she is talking about schools only on the Bluff which is why they are saying it is expensive.” Daily News