The City has cut its capital budget by R2.7 billion from the original R8.3bn approved for the 2021/22 financial year. The Adjustment Budget, which was tabled before the council this week, showed no cuts to the R48.3bn earmarked for the operating budget. Under new mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis’ proposed Adjustment Budget, R600 million would be allocated to free basic services, R24mn for new vehicles to respond to sewer spills, and R10m for new safe spaces for the homeless. The council was told that the cuts to the capital budget were mainly due to delays in the commencement of some projects and tender or procurement related processes. Opposition parties slammed the Adjustment Budget, saying it reflected “bias towards the affluent”.  Leader of the Cape Coloured Congress, Fadiel Adams, said the budget sought to “perpetuate poverty and preserve privilege”.  “The City has been assisting businesses in many ways.  “Let it now assist the ordinary taxpayers by writing off debt for water and give them a rates break as they are still facing financial turmoil.  “Even with the planned refurbishment of the Strandfontein Pavilion, we had to bring the matter to the previous council meeting. Do we now have to bring up every issue before the mayor addresses those?“  He said a pro-poor budget would also start addressing the land issue by releasing pockets of land to help ease the housing crisis.  “We are willing to work with the new mayor but he needs to meet us half-way,” added Adams.  The ANC’s Xolani Sotashe also criticised the Adjustment Budget and said it was not geared towards accelerating service delivery.  “The Democratic Alliance is basically telling us that it cannot spend R2.7bn during a critical period when poor areas need infrastructure upgrades, and the construction sector needs a boost so that more jobs can be created and better and safe human settlements are provided.  “This also reflects on poor planning. Delays in service delivery projects cannot be tolerated anymore. We need action,” Sotashe said.  He called for a detailed and decisive plan to deal with collapsing infrastructure, including the sewers.  Sotashe also slammed the allocation increase for Contracted Services as an indictment of the City’s failure to implement skills upgrades and transfers. Sotashe said the Adjustment Budget did not address the transport needs through an “aggressive plan” and instead the Urban Mobility budget was slashed by R1.5bn. Civic activist group STOP COCT also questioned how such a large amount of money could be removed halfway through the budget year. Spokesperson Sandra Dickson said the fact that the City could shave off R2.7bn from the budget underlined the “inefficiency and over estimations” when it set tariffs for basic services. Dickson welcomed budget commitments towards the fixing of the Strandfontein Pavilion and the Muizenberg huts. “This is long overdue as it is a hallmark of a decay of public facilities. But nothing is said about modernising the City’s outdated libraries.” Dickson took a swipe at the lack of “ ► no ◄ additional relief” for pensioners and  the “hard pressed” working class residents who were faithfully paying property rates and purchasing electricity and water while paying for other services. “It is time that every policy around the setting of tariffs is revised in time for the 2022/23 budget which will be open for public comment in March 2022,” added Dickson. The Adjustment Budget also comes amid concerns of the closure of two libraries, in Tygervalley and Plumstead. The Tygervalley Library will close on April 30 while Plumstead Library will close in April 2023. Mayco member for Community Services and Health, Patricia van der Ross, said the City had to review the lease agreements for the facilities due to budget constraints. Earlier media reports also indicated that two clinics in Mitchells Plain, the Eastridge and Rocklands clinics, were allegedly earmarked for closure. Van der Ross said a community engagement process would be followed “once there is greater clarity” regarding the facilities.