CAPE TOWN - Premier Alan Winde and Local Government MEC Anton Bredell are set to challenge what they have labelled as ’irrational’ findings made against them by the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane before the end of this month. Mkhwebane had found Winde and Bredell were in breach of the executive ethics code, in her report released on October 22 last year.  This follows a complaint lodged by GOOD party Secretary-General Brett Herron on Winde and Bredell’s conduct in handling of issues at the Oudsthoorn municipality. Mkhwebane said Bredell had allegedly made comments that suggested to the DA Oudtshoorn councillors that they should request him to place the municipality under provincial government administration,  so the councillors could focus on political work in the run up to the local government elections last year. She said it was clear from those comment that his intention was to achieve political advantage for the DA.  Additionally, she found that Winde’s actions were improper when he appeared before the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs in June 2020, during which, he was referred by a Member of Parliament to the MEC’s proposals to the DA councillors of the municipality that they that they should agree that the Municipality is placed under administration. Mkhwebane ordered President Cyril Ramaphosa to act against Winde, and Winde to act against Bredell within 60 days.  Winde’s spokesperson, Cayla Murray said the Premier and MEC  have undertaken to launch their applications to review the findings against them by the Public Protector in her recent reports, by the end of January.  Murray said the basis for these reviews is that the findings made are, in the opinion of Winde and Bredell, wrong in law and irrational.  “It is important to note that the Premier has also already complied with the remedial action required by the Public Protector in respect of Minister Anton Bredell, when he submitted that report to the Western Cape Provincial Parliament. “We are also aware that the President complied with the remedial action required by the Public Protector in her report with respect to Premier Winde, when he submitted the report to the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). This means that the short delay in the launching of the review applications has caused no damage to the Public Protector or any other person,” added Murray. Acting Presidency spokesperson Tyrone Seale said the Presidency referred the matter to the NCOP, as directed by the Public Protector.  Public Protector spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe said Winde and Bredell requested consent to suspension of implementation of the Public Protector’s remedial action, to afford them an opportunity to institute applications for review by mid December last year. However, they said the State Attorney could not institute the review applications during the festive season, and they have undertook to ensure that the applications are launched by end of this month.  Herron said if they don’t see a review application by the end of January they will return to the Public Protector. “The remedial action was to be taken within 60 days which is ample time to start review proceedings.  Bredell has now had 90 days and his failure to take any action is simple defiance with the Premier colluding.  This defiance by the Premier and Bredell is itself a breach of the Executive Ethics Act and Code.” Cape Times