ABOUT 12 children under Reach for a Dream Foundation will now benefit from R60 000 in funds raised by an independent cyclist, Grant Lottering. This comes after 53-year-old Lottering finished a 38-hour brutal ride dubbed, ‘’Cross Cape Im’possible Dream Tour’’, at the Waterford Estate in Stellenbosch. The ride was in aid of 34 children fighting life-threatening illnesses but the  R60 000 he managed to raise will only cater for 12. According to Business Head for Reach for a Dream foundation, Natalie Lazaris,  Grant’s Cross Cape Im’possible Dream Tour, raised about R60 000 for the foundation. This will enable them to fulfil 12 bicycle dreams with the funding; each dreamer will not only receive their own bicycle, but embellishments as well, to ensure that they have the most amazing dream day. Lazaris said, ‘’we have many dreamers who dream to own their very own bicycle. Whether the reason is that they want to be able to get to and from school, or that they have never had a bike of their own.  “Thanks to Lottering, we will now be able to fulfil approximately 12 individual bike dreams for children, all of whom are fighting a life threatening illness.  “We are grateful to Lottering who inspires us to continue our journey of hope as the foundation,” she said. The foundation’s priority was to ensure that all children who are fighting an illness, have access to the foundation and to feel supported through dream fulfilment. Grant Lottering said the Im’possible Tour took every last drop of his physical and mental endurance to complete.  Since his near-fatal crash in the Italian Alps in July 2013, he has repeatedly demonstrated perseverance in the face of adversity. “This was by no means my longest Im'possible Tour, but without doubt the hardest 700km I've ever cycled due to the conditions and terrain.  “Were it not for my selfless and super committed support team and the greater purpose behind my Im'possible Tours, I doubt I would have been able to push on. “What a savage ride it was, but beautiful for the Reach for a Dream kids who will see their dreams fulfilled. I am humbled and blessed,” he said. Lottering completed the single, non-stop, two day and two-night ultra-endurance cycle from Plettenberg Bay on the Garden Route to Stellenbosch in the Cape Winelands in 37 hours and 24 minutes. The cycling challenge was backed by sponsors such as Mercedes-Benz South Africa and the Western Cape Growth Agency. According to Mercedes-Benz product and marketing manager, Marinus Venter, their involvement is to bring social change.  Lottering’s achievements with the latest tour, from Plett to Stellenbosch, is remarkable, he said, and they are privileged to have been part of his fundraising ride.