AS ALLEGATIONS of sexual assault have been levelled against a Western Cape politician, a UCT student and a professor, activists hope that the newly enacted anti-GBV laws will give survivors a better chance of receiving justice. Last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa signed into law the Criminal and Related Matters Amendment Act, the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act and the Domestic Violence Amendment Act. The three pieces of legislations are aimed at strengthening the fight against gender-based violence and femicide. This comes at a time when the Western Cape government has been rocked by a sex scandal involving suspended MEC for Community Safety Albert Fritz and UCT is investigating rape allegations against a SRC member and a professor.  UCT spokesperson Nombuso Shabalala confirmed that the university was investigating the allegations against the student.  Shabalala said: “I am not aware of any criminal case opened at SAPS.”  Similarly, in the Fritz matter the women who submitted sworn statements to Premier Alan Winde have yet to open a criminal case.  It was also unclear whether a criminal case had been opened against a UCT professor who was being investigated by the provincial department of health for allegedly raping a student back in 2019. According to sister publication, Cape Times, the matter was being investigated by the department and not UCT as they were both employees of the provincial department. The latest SAPS crime statistics from July to September, showed 556 cases of rape were registered with police while 13 000 incidents of domestic violence were recorded.  Global Citizen’s Senior Manager of Global Policy for Southern and East Africa, Sonwabise Mzinyathi, on their website welcomed the president’s move, and also outlined what would now be needed for the new laws to be effectively implemented. This included equipping the police, courts and department of social development with better resources and awareness in dealing with survivors.  Women’s rights activist Roegshanda Pascoe said while the laws were a step in the right direction, a plan to ensure proper implementation was also important. Pascoe believed its for this reason the victims still do not trust authority.  “We still have a mountain ahead of us, as long as there’s corruption from the people who are supposed to protect us.” Pascoe said there was not enough awareness about the new laws and how they could help victims. Women were “forever left in the dark with questions and little trust.”  “For instance, they say a perpetrator’s information can be made public, but what about the Popi Act (Protection of Personal Information Act)? “Also in all fairness will the publication of the name of a perpetrator also not expose a victim? However, we are grateful that steps are being taken.” Lisa Vetten, researcher and project consultant for GBV at the University of Johannesburg, agrees with Pascoe saying that those in power should actually listen to women.  She said victims often do not lay criminal charges because they don’t trust the police. “They afraid the case might drag on for years, then there’s also the fear of not being able to go on with your life,” she said. Vetten believed that while women need a voice they need for those in power to listen and then take action.  “The problem is that they ignore way women repeatedly say, sometimes opening a criminal case invites more challenges.”