Cape Town - The Case against Sea Point lawyer Gary Trappler has been re-enrolled after representations were made to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to reconsider its decision of withdrawing the case.  Trappler is accused of slashing the car tyres of Thandi Mgwaba, a black woman who lived in the area. The case was thrown out of court due to insufficient evidence. The senior prosecutor at the time said the case had no prospects of being successfully prosecuted.  There is CCTV footage of a man believed to be Trappler approaching Mgwaba’s car. After leaving the car, the tyres deflated. The footage never made it to court as the case was withdrawn before it could be presented. ANC leader in the provincial legislature Cameron Dugmore and Mgwaba’s lawyer made representations to the NPA asking for the case to be re-enrolled. The Weekend Argus has seen a letter from the director of public prosecutions to Dugmore and Mgwaba’s lawyer, Tim Dunn.  It stated: “After careful consideration of your written representations, as well as the contents of the docket. I have decided to proceed with the charge against the accused, Mr Trappler. “When I was given the evidence relating to this case, I could never understand why Trappler was never prosecuted,” said Dugmore. “It just did not make sense to me. I am encouraged by the NPA’s decision. Justice must be done. There have been a number of violent incidents in Sea Point, often against black people and those standing up for the homeless, which remain unresolved.” He said the fire-bombing of the car belonging to Peter Wagenaar, who was feeding the homeless in Sea Point, was a case in point. Wagenaar’s car was set alight after he fed homeless people in the area.  “All those who planned and carried out this attack must also be brought to book,” added Dugmore. Mgwaba, who is now in KwaZulu-Natal, said she was happy when she received news that the case would be re-enrolled. “I believe he will be prosecuted this time. There is strong evidence; hence the NPA took the decisions to look at the case again.” When contacted for comment about the case being re-enrolled, Trappler said: “I have no knowledge of this.” Trappler told the Weekend Argus last year that homeless people on the Atlantic Sea Board should not be fed as it made life comfortable for them and they thus refused to go to shelters.  Mgwaba said she was depressed after the incident as she believed that South Africa belonged to all.  “I came to Cape Town thinking I am welcome. I did not know I would deal with that. He (Trappler) thought that he won and I will open a separate defamation case against him. He thought he can do as he pleases.” NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila confirmed that the case was set to be re-enrolled. “A summons has already been issued for the accused to appear at Cape Town Magistrate’s Court 15. The next court date is 8 April.” Weekend Argus