Afrikaaps and using “colouredisms” have added a unique flavour to social media, with videos going viral on TikTok. Content creators Morné Esau and Justin Garth Lakey have creatively tapped into the colourful use of the language. Justin Garth Lakey (@justin_g_lakey) is an actor, sports conditioning trainer and content creator. He started using colouredisms in his videos and has since gained 47 000 followers and his content has more than one million likes. In one of his viral videos, which has garnered 210 000 views, Lakey takes on the persona of a coloured girl using Instagram live.  Lakey said: “Justin on-screen and off-screen are the same person. I love entertaining people, making them laugh and making them smile.” If you’re wondering why he looks familiar, Lakey was a contestant on season one of the Bachelorette South Africa.  Lakey tried out various types of content that helped him build his account. “People started suggesting ideas that I would jot down to create,” he said.  When it comes to skits, Lakey said he gets inspiration from his friends and family. “It happens in my daily life. I pick up on things easily and have started to detect commonalities that I can use in my content,” he said.  He added: “I tap into humour that makes me feel comfortable filming videos about coloured people.  Lakey said he wanted his content to enlighten others about what coloured people were like and what they experience.  “Perhaps they can see my videos and learn something while laughing. I see it as bridging the gap between races and cultures,” he said. “I want to inspire my community and show them that it’s possible.  Morné Esau (@morneesau) has grown his following on the app to just over 22 000, with his content gaining 273 000 likes. In his videos, he often uses Afrikaaps. One of Esau’s viral videos gained more than 400 000 views. It depicts the kind of stories people share at a braai. “The video sharing coloured stories at a braai blew up, and when I saw people relating to it, I thought maybe this is what I should do. I think when I share these stories, people enjoy it because they can see themselves in it. I think our language also resonates with others,” he said.  Esau, originally from Bonteheuwel, resides in Blue Downs and works as an account manager . “I grew up around a lot of funny characters, so I will never run out of content. Even in my family, there’s always a story to share.” Esau, 34, is married with two daughters. “I try to film one video a day. I just choose my theme and then press record,” he said. Anyone who follows Esau, will be surprised to know that although he is fluent in Afrikaaps, he struggles to speak Afrikaans. “Since my school days, I’ve struggled with it. But when I tap into my coloured side, then Afrikaaps just flows,” he said.