CAPE TOWN - The 49th edition of the aQuellé Midmar Mile crowned two first-time champions on Sunday as Stephanie Houtman and Connor Buck emerged victorious in the elite races. Just a week ago, Houtman wasn’t planning to compete and made a last-minute decision to head to KwaZulu-Natal for the event. It was Tory Earle who took an early lead in the women’s race, reaching the 400m and halfway points in front. But Houtman steadily worked her way to the front by the 1200m mark and powered ahead to win in 19 minutes 37 seconds. Finishing 13 seconds back was her TUKS training partner Samantha Randle, with 17-year-old Mykae Forrest hot on her heels in 19:51. “It was a good race. I was actually really happy with it,” said an elated Houtman. “Towards the start, it was very bundled, everyone was on top of each other, and then towards the first buoy, everyone started spreading out, and I started finding my rhythm, and I just went for it. “A week ago, I wasn’t actually going to come, but then Wayne (Riddin) persuaded me to come and just to see what happened. So we decided to fly down yesterday and come and swim.” The men’s race saw two-time defending champion Michael McGlynn taking an early lead before 19-year-old Connor Buck took control. Buck reached the 400m mark in front and simply extended his considerable lead from there. By the time he reached the finish in 18:18, he was a remarkable one minute and 20 seconds in front of McGlynn, who took second spot. Sixteen-year-old Ross Paterson just edged out Ross Hartigan for third spot in a frantic sprint for the line, finishing in 19:41. “I didn’t expect that at all,” Buck said. “To take the win, I knew I would have to build up a bit of a lead in the beginning. I had a good start, I knew I had a lead, so I just didn’t look back. I had no idea the lead had built up to that much. “If you told me 10 years ago when I did my first Midmar that one day I would be standing here as a champion, I definitely wouldn’t have believed you.” Cape Times