Cape Town - The metro police, together with the SAPS, have arrested two suspects who were caught red-handed with R32 000 in cash after allegedly carrying out a robbery at Brackenfell Post Office. The drama unfolded just after 10pm on Tuesday, hours after the robbery took place at the post office where staff were held at gunpoint. It had been the quick-thinking action of metro police officers when the getaway vehicle was spotted on CCTV cameras fleeing the scene. The same vehicle was seen by operators in the Brackenfell area, and a search began. Once the vehicle was stopped on the R300 near the Van Riebeek off-ramp, two suspects aged 27 and 37 were arrested. Metro police spokesperson Ruth Solomons said the men could not explain why they had such a large amount of money in their possession. “Metro Police officers arrested two men in Brackenfell last night in connection with a robbery at the Brackenfell Post Office earlier in the day. They also recovered a large sum of money. Officers were busy with crime-prevention patrol when they received information of a suspicious vehicle in the area,” said Solomons. “The vehicle was spotted on CCTV cameras driving away from an armed robbery earlier at the post office, and CCTV operators noted the same vehicle exploring the Brackenfell area around 10pm. “The officers stopped and searched the vehicle on the R300 close to the Van Riebeeck off-ramp in the direction of the N2. “Officers found a large amount of money under the driver's seat covered with a cloth and around R15 000 in the passengers’ possession. The total amounted to R32 279. “The suspects could not give a proper explanation (as to) where the money came from. “The two, aged 27 and 37, were arrested for business robbery and taken to Brackenfell SAPS for further investigation.” Police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi said the men had travelled in a group of four and that two were arrested. “The circumstances surrounding a business robbery that occurred in Brackenfell are under investigation,” he said. “According to reports, four unknown armed males entered a local business premises in Paradys Street, threatening the staff demanding cash. No shots were fired and no one sustained any injuries. “Two males have since been apprehended and detained for questioning by Brackenfell police. Brackenfell police registered a case of business robbery.” Anyone with information is urged to call Crime Stop on 08600 10111 Weekend Argus