CAPE TOWN - A three-hour wait for an ambulance is just one of the many challenges Touws River residents have to battle, as they face severely limited medical services in the town. Situated in the Breede Valley Municipality just off the N1, with a population of about 10 000 people, Touws River is serviced by one clinic which operates from Monday to Friday between 7.30am and 4pm, while chronic patients use patient transport services to hospitals in Laingsburg, about an hour away, and Cape Town, about two hours away. Deputy chairperson for the health committee in Touws River, Zelna Fink, said the situation was dire. “This has been a situation that has been going on for years and we have been struggling to get the necessary and much-needed medical services in our town.  “While we commend the staff at the clinic who do daily try to facilitate and make the experience better, it is just impossible with the numbers streaming to the clinic and the number of people who desperately need medical care. “The clinic works on an appointment basis and is fully booked ahead of time. The staff there see about 50 patients per day.  “Patients become frustrated when they get to the clinic during the early hours of the morning, and then have to wait for extended periods.  “There is conflict and confrontations daily at the gate as patients try to get seen to first, but the system can hardly cope with walk-ins,” said Fink. The provincial health department did respond to enquiries on Sunday.  Ward councillor, Russel Johnson, said the high unemployment rate had made things worse. “It’s as if our town has been marginalised. We have one clinic and no private doctor while patients have to wait for almost three hours for an ambulance to arrive from Worcester, which also services our neighbouring town De Doorns. “The loss of life due to these challenges is devastating and we are pleading for a 24/7 medical facility. People who are already unemployed and vulnerable are paying private transport of R200 to get medical help.  “We appreciate the help from Gift of the Givers, and welcome them to our community,” said Johnson. Humanitarian organisation, Gift of the Givers, is to send a multidisciplinary medical team to the community this week. Organisation chairperson and founder, Dr Imtiaz Sooliman, said the team would assess the health status of the entire town. “During a follow-up visit this week, we discovered that there hasn’t been adequate and reliable medical services in the town for an extended period, and that a toothache in a child lingers for weeks causing discomfort and intense debilitating pain.  “What happens in cases of more advanced medical conditions is anyone’s guess, as the closest health facility, Worcester Hospital, is an hour away for people who have neither funds for transport nor vehicles,” said Sooliman. Cape Times