Dr Siyamak Saleh (@doctor.siya) has fast become South Africa’s favourite doctor on TikTok.  Cape Town - Having started his account at the height of the pandemic, it has since been verified and he has gained 2.3 million followers. His content on the app has gained 13 million likes. Saleh is a medical doctor who practices in Cape Town. He is Persian and grew up in Kuwait. He then proceeded to study medicine in Moscow, Russia and moved to Cape Town 14 years ago. When he started his account in March 2020, he realised the need for raising awareness on Covid-19, its symptoms, treatment options and the vaccine. “That’s when I started creating medical videos and helping as many people as I could with the information,” he said. Since then, he received recognition from the World Health Organization for raising awareness and fighting Covid-19 misinformation. He’s been featured in the British Medical Journal and the Huffington Post for his work on TikTok. Tiktok Tea How do you plan your content for TikTok and what is your favourite type of content to create? “I plan my content based on my audience's request and it also depends on what is trending. My content ranges from raising awareness on chronic conditions, women's health, mental health and sexual health, to fighting the HIV stigma and Covid-19 misinformation. My favourite one would be the videos where I debunk myths!” What has the reaction to your content been like among your colleagues? “My colleagues have been supportive throughout my journey.” What are your future aspirations for your TikTok account? “My future aspirations for my account is to be able to produce more content regularly and to have live sessions with medical experts of different fields to educate and inspire as many as possible.” What is one piece of medical advice you would give anyone? “The most important medical advice I can give is to get the right amount of quality sleep (seven to eight hours for adults), as a lack of sleep has been associated with a long list of complications ranging from hypertension, diabetes to depression, anxiety, heart attack, stroke and the list goes on.” What advice do you have for anyone considering going into your profession? “Working in the medical field is a very rewarding experience especially when you can improve or even save lives! But to make it, you need to have the passion and dedication for it.” What advice do you have for anyone planning to start a TikTok account but who feel hesitant to do so? “My first advice is to START! Register and start making content, learn from other creators and your own mistakes and of course, always make sure you have good lighting and a clean camera lens. I'm also happy to help anyone with advice or guidance on starting their TikTok journey.”