DURBAN - THE family of a 17-year-old boy who died after he was stabbed during a fight at a Verulam school yesterday, say they have been left with a lot of questions. Cassim Shabane, who was in Grade 10 at Siphesihle High School, was allegedly stabbed in the chest by another pupil. A source, who spoke to The Mercury outside the school yesterday, said that two pupils had apparently been fighting over a lighter when Cassim was stabbed. The source revealed that the incident took place during the lunch break. Cassim’s aunt, Matilda Mthembu, said she was still waiting for answers as to what happened to her nephew. “I was informed by another child that we live with, that Cassim has been stabbed. I quickly got dressed and went to the school. When I arrived the teachers took me to the clinic. When I arrived there, he was no more,” she said. Mthembu said the school had not informed her about what led to the death of her nephew. She said Cassim was like any other child who made mistakes and acknowledged them. “He would get naughty like other children and when you discipline him, he would apologise. He was not a violent person, which is why I am confused about what really happened,” she said. Mthembu said the teenager had been living with her for two years as his parents had died. “After my sister passed away, Cassim lived with my dad and his wife, but there were some problems and he came to live with me,” she said. According to a statement by Reaction Unit SA (Rusa), teachers called them around 11.20am requesting assistance for an injured male. “On arrival the Rusa officers were informed that the critically injured student was transported to a local clinic, where he was declared deceased on arrival,” read the statement. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident and said a group of pupils were fighting inside the school premises in Trenance Park when a 17-yearold was stabbed on the left side of the chest. “The 17-year-old was taken to a local clinic where he was declared dead upon arrival. A case of murder is being investigated by Verulam SAPS,” she said. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa condemned the incident and conveyed condolences to the family. “We have sent district officials to go to the school to get more details on what happened,” he said. THE MERCURY