DURBAN - Getting verbal permission from your teacher or a physical pass for a toilet break was and still is prominent in schools. However, a Limpopo school has taken it to the next level. Pupils from a Limpopo school have to get a permission slip signed by the school principal, indicating that permission to go to the toilet has been granted. An example of the permission slip, which is also stamped that day’s date, was posted to a private group on Facebook. The example was stamped for approval a week ago for a Grade 12 pupil at 8.42am. The person who posted the image asked group members for their take on the permission slip. Since the post was made at 12.01am on Tuesday, it has received more than 60 Facebook reactions and 60 comments. There were different responses from teachers. One teacher said: “This is a good initiative because should anything happen to a pupil during my period I'm to be held responsible. Now if there is a permission slip then we will be able to track events.” Another said pass-outs were important in reducing the number of pupils who loiter outside the classroom. The school she taught in had a pass-out that was a lanyard but stopped that due to Covid-19. “We used this disposable system in your pic but it was too time-consuming so we are now using one which only requires a date, time and the educator's signature.” The next teacher said: “We're not allowed to send pupils out unless it's really necessary. Yesterday in the period right after break one girl asked to go to the toilet. I felt too bad to say no since she said it's that time of the month, so I granted permission. Within the next 10 minutes, seven girls came to ask permission to go. So now how do I avoid being accused of favouritism if I allowed one to go and not allow the others? Kids of today take chances, and they don't learn to take responsibility the way we used to, by going to the toilet during break times. If the school doesn't have these strict policies in place, it becomes very difficult for us as teachers to manage the situation.” Others were not so sure about the process. One teacher said it was “c**p” since teachers did not have permission to use the loo. “Nature sometimes gets too urgent for you to wait for a toilet slip to be filled and signed.” Another said: “So what's going to happen to them while waiting for the process to be administered? Pee and poo on themselves?” One teacher said: “Toilet passes are nothing new, but usually it's a pass that can be worn on a lanyard and issued by the home room teacher. One boy and one girl pass each. Getting the office to approve it is really pathetic micromanagement!” Another teacher said it would be better if they made permanent laminated cards with different colours for permits to go to the loo, staffroom, etc. Each teacher should take a few cards of each kind to class. Daily News