Cape Town - A marching drill, dance school and after-care programme run by a former police officer is breathing new hope into the lives of children living in Manenberg. Sampros Vanni Tjatjies Marching Cadets together with Marilyn Jones, a former police officer, are using backyards and open fields in Manenberg to educate children to dance, march and drill and to read and write. Despite humble beginnings and tattered and torn clothes, they make sure to look immaculate and tidy as a cadet squad. They have competed provincially and locally in the past but due to lockdown restrictions they were also not able to compete. They were also part of the retirement ceremony for top cop, Major General Andre Lincoln and carried out the salute proceedings on the day of the event. Every week, the cadets are found on an open field near Duinefontein Road while others gather in Jones’ backyard where they are taught to read, write and assisted with their homework. Moegamat Amien Samodien, better known as “Samo”, said it all began when he taught contemporary dancing at a local primary school and was introduced to marching drills. He said the love for children began when his own parents opened their home to kids in their community. “My father, Gamiet, he was always a man who had a lot of children around him in the community,” he said. “My mother and father, adopted a son, and they would have cousins and other relatives over. We lived in Woodstock then moved to Bonteheuwel and later to Manenberg. We loved being around children and uplifting them.” “I decided to open up an NGO. We opened up an arts culture academy where we taught dancing and later, soccer. Seven years ago, I was introduced to the Western Province Marching Association. That is where I got my skills and did my coaching classes. Then we began the marching drill  team. He said they called it Vanni Tjatjies Marching Drill to represent Manenberg. “These children are eager; we groom them into drill marching. There is a craving - children want to learn more skills - and out of the drilling there is dancing and singing and drama.” He said they work with other organisations like Balls not Guns that allows the children to see life outside of Manenberg.  “When they go to Bo-Kaap for example, they are in a  different environment, they build friendships and there is unity. Samo said they had a great need for equipment and uniforms.  “We allow them to raise their voice and they helped to design their clothes for their uniform - which are now worn out. We need equipment, various drums, musical instruments and tracksuits. Drums cost thousands of rands. Our children now dress in white shirts and ties after their waistcoats tore and broke.” Gloria Veale of Balls Not Guns said the children were an inspiration.  “They, like us, are about uniting children through peace and team spirit and love and they bring such a powerful message to our communities and they are disciplined.” Yushrah Carelse, 19, has been doing the marching drill for a year and loves it. “I have been marching now for a year and I am also involved in the fundraising and this brings out about a lot of opportunities. And the children get to meet new people and experience new things.” Marilyn Jones, who runs the after-care from her own pocket and donations, said they were empowering their children not just to drill or dance, but also to read and write. “This began during lockdown and I asked people for colouring pencils for the children, and paper. I noticed some of the children could not write their names. Some children repeated Grade 1.” She said she was in the police force for over 20 years and felt it was time she gave back.  “I saw the children loved to colour in and I could see they loved being creative.” Weekend Argus