Staff Reporter CAPE TOWN - Tygerbery hospital, on Tuesday, became the first government hospital in South Africa to perform robotic surgery with the launch of its da Vinci surgical robotic programme. Two da Vinci Xi systems - the fourth generation and most technologically advanced surgical robot available - were acquired by the provincial government in October last year. The main diseases the programme will focus on are colorectal, liver, prostate, kidney and bladder cancers, and women with severe endometriosis. The system gives surgeons an advanced set of instruments to use in performing robotic assisted keyhole or minimally invasive surgery. The hospital said in a statement: The operation is not performed by a robot alone; instead, the system gives surgeons an advanced set of tools/instruments that the surgeon guides from a dedicated console via fibre optic cables. The da Vinci system thus ’translates’ a surgeon’s hand movements at the console in real time, bending and rotating the instruments while performing the procedure. The tiny surgical instruments move inside the patient like a human hand, but with far greater procession and with a significantly greater range of motion.” Patients will benefit from better visualisation and magnification of tissues by the da Vinci camera, facilitating more precise surgery, major surgery through multiple small incisions instead of a big incision leading to less post-operative pain and a faster return to normal activities after surgery, as well as fewer post-operative complications such as hernias. Built-in visualisation systems allow for checking the blood supply of an organ and decrease the chance of major complications when compared with traditional surgery. Tygerberg Hospital chief executive Dr Matodzi Mukosi said: “We see this as an opportunity to use state of the art medical technology to improve patient experience and ensure good clinical outcomes. This will also be a good morale booster for our surgeons and theatre staff who will be able to showcase their skills and capabilities in the field.” Tygerberg Hospital head of colorectal surgery and robotics co-ordinator, Dr Tim Forgan, said the da Vinci robotic system was the latest cutting-edge technology in minimally invasive surgery. “To use this surgical system, that has been shown to decrease the chance of complications while allowing for successful major surgery through small incisions, at Tygerberg Hospital is exciting and inspirational.” The surgeons being trained to use the system are accomplished laparoscopic surgeons and are considered national experts in their fields. They are lecturers at Stellenbosch University’s Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences. Premier Alan Winde said: “It truly is an incredible feat that Tygerberg Hospital has become the first public hospital in South Africa to perform a robotic surgical procedure. It is going to make a big difference in helping us recover our comprehensive health-care services, which were impacted by the pandemic.” Cape Times