AN ANC Youth League leader in the Western Cape, accused of hitting a woman with an empty bottle, has stepped aside following months of squabbles.  The League’s leadership in the province said on Wednesday that  member of  Provincial Congress Preparatory Committee (PCPC) Masibulele Tolofane  who is facing assault charges had asked to step aside until the criminal case against him is finalised. Tolofane is accused of allegedly assaulting ANC member Vuyokazi Mbizo by hitting her with an empty bottle during a branch general meeting in Gugulethu in August. ANCYL spokesperson in the province, Melusi Kama said Tolofane is the one that wrote to the ANC's national youth task team (NYTT) requesting to step aside until the matter against him is resolved. Tolofane also faces disciplinary action by the league’s national disciplinary committee. “Comrade Tolofane has written to the NYTT requesting that he be allowed to step aside until finalisation of his court case where he is accused of assault GBH,” read the party’s statement. “In his letter, Tolofane submits that he has taken this decision to protect the image, character and reputational damage to the brand of the ANCYL.” “When this matter surfaced the ANCYL Western Cape PCPC referred the matter to the NYTT which has the powers to discipline its members. It is in this context that we welcome his move as a revolutionary act and would at this stage call on all members of the ANCYL to give him space to clear his name in a court of law.” The League’s leadership has faced internal criticism over its handling of the matter and how long it took to institute disciplinary action. In December, Zintle Matshikiza and Naledi Maponopono who had been elected to the league’s leadership structures left their positions in protest over the appointment of Tolofane to the committee despite the charges against him. The league, in a statement, blamed the ANC’s Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) for not heeding their calls to escalate the matter. “We do, however, want to register our disappointment with the ineffectiveness of the ANC Western Cape IPC, which failed to refer the matter to the Integrity Committee when Tolofane requested (an) audience with it. This resulted in the failure to enforce the implementation of the ANC resolutions on the matter of step aside,” said the league. But IPC chairperson, Lerumo Kalako rubbished the claims and said they advised the League to take action on their own. “When we were informed of the matter we told them that it was a youth league matter and they must deal with it as a structure,” he said. “It was not up to us to refer it to the Integrity Committee, they should have done so themselves. What they are saying now is nonsense and I do not know where it is coming from.” The League insists that its working committee had already requested the NYTT nearly six months ago to implement the step aside rule.