A yearning for self-improvement and desire to rise above the socio-economic ills in Bonteheuwel led to Ryan Fredericks to open a photography studio in his backyard. While Fredericks has been running the studio for a year in his spare time, he has back-to-back bookings for photo-shoots. The 26-year-old works as a receiving assistant at Weylandts and uses photography to supplement his income. He borrowed money from his parents, Denise and Shafiek, to begin the business. “I converted a garage into my workspace within a matter of a month, and I’ve managed to pay them all the money back, from profits made through the business,” he said. His love for photography developed in 2018 after the death of his brother, Craig Fredericks, in 2017. Fredericks wanted to contribute to his household financially and picked up photography as a side hustle. “I studied photography at DL Photo Photography School in 2018, and after that, I wanted to open my studio,” he said. Although the interest had always been there, his brother’s death sparked his entrepreneurial spirit. “My yearning to improve and develop myself set me on a journey to search for a skill and knowledge that would be both sustainable and a lifelong additional source of income and activity,” he said. He added: “Photography stimulated my very active curiosity. In no time, I acquired my first camera and played around with shooting landscapes and various images of my family members and friends. I had a lot to learn.” Fredericks is a portrait photographer. “This gives me room to explore my creativity more. I love being able to capture moments,” he said. Fredericks said there had been an increased demand for couple photoshoots lately. “I enjoy it, but I still prefer the one-on-one shoots.” The only downfall that Fredericks has experienced is his location. Clients from outside the area are often fearful of entering Bonteheuwel. “I always tell them to come because they don’t shoot where I stay.” Although he would like to leave his job to pursue photography full-time, the income he receives from both pursuits helps him with improvements to his studio. “I want to make the studio much bigger. I want to add more to it as well. My current job helps me fund this, so I can’t leave it yet,” he said. His weapon of choice is a Canon 70D camera, which he diligently saved for. His primary source of marketing is his Facebook page, RyanF Photography. In future, he would like to share his photography skills with children in the area. “Most people in the area can’t afford to get into photography, but I want to give back to the community. I come from here, and I know this is what the area needs.” He added: “I intend to improve my product and levels of service excellence by remaining curious and ambitious to become a local seasoned photographer.”