Cape Town - In the face of rising crime in Kraaifontein, a group of foreign nationals have taken to patrolling their neighbourhood to  protect themselves and other residents. The patrols in Wallacedene Phase 7, however, have sparked a heated debate among residents and community leaders about the group of crime fighters. Some residents says it may lead to   vigilantism  while others have welcomed more  safety controls. A member of the group, Innocent Muneri, said the decision to carry out the patrols was taken at a recent public meeting held by concerned residents and leaders. "At that meeting, the foreign nationals raised concerns that we were the most targeted and we needed to protect ourselves as the police appeared not to have enough resources. The community gave us a go ahead.“ He also said that a delegation of foreign nationals met with the local police shortly after the meeting and were also given a verbal approval with the provision that operations should be carried out within the "laws of the land". He said the community had noted with serious concern a rise in crime incidents including murders, robberies and house break-ins. In the latest crime statistics from July to September, Kraaifontein was listed at the number six among the country’s top 30 stations for the highest number of murders and number three for attempted murders.  "The crime has escalated at a tremendous rate. It's no longer safe around here. Just the other day, members of the patrol group caught someone trying to break into a foreigner's home and chased them away," he said. He said the group was "technically the Neighbourhood Watch" even though it was not registered yet. But some residents have accused the group, which started its operations about 10 days ago, of beating people including women "People don't feel safe anymore ever since the start of the patrols. The group members don't even check whether one is carrying a weapon or not," said resident, Zuko Khanyiso. He said the group "armed itself for war" with golf sticks, pangas, sjamboks and other weapons. "Our concern is that people cannot even respond to calls for help from families and friends in distress at night," Khanyiso said. Muneri denied that they were armed and said they only carried "knobkerries and sticks and a few other things". He said a meeting that was scheduled to take place on Friday to discuss further logistics including official registration of the group was called off. "We have also now been advised to stop the operations until the next community meeting involving the police," Muneri said. On a Facebook page set up for residents of Kraaifontein, Scottsdene and Wallacedene some residents claimed that the group had assaulted people, including women whom they found walking on the streets at night. While Muneri did not deny the claims, he believed that if some of the "local people" had joined the patrols, there would not be such accusations levelled against the group. "We urge the locals to join us on the patrols. We don't want to be divided on this initiative," he said. Ward Councillor, Siyabonga Duka said he was invited to the public meeting held two weeks ago, where two senior leaders from Kraaifontein SAPS were also present. However, Duka raised concerns about the groups safety. "I cannot condone a patrol by foreign nationals because that will expose them to serious attacks by criminals.“ Duka acknowledged a rise in crime in parts of Wallacedene  because Neighbourhood Watches were not doing patrols as they should. Duku said an imbizo was scheduled to take place on Tuesday to discuss crime in the area and how to tackle it including the establishment of street committees. "There have been incidents of murder, rape and house burglaries. But I must commend the approach  by the station commander now who has committed to regular updates. Hence, we will now have an imbizo to discuss interventions,“ Duka said. The Community Policing Forum said they were unware of the  patrols. The provincial department of Community Safety said there was no accredited Neighbourhood Watch in Wallacedene. However, there were 22 accredited organisations in the greater Kraaifontein area. The department has previously encouraged Neighbourhood Watches to get registered, offering training and support as well as a maximum amount of R10 000 per financial year. By last year, there were 322 accredited watches in the Western Cape.  Police said they were waiting for information from the police station before they could comment.