ANIMAL Right’s organisation TEARS is encouraging donors to donate to the organisation before the end of the financial year. The donation will be tax-free, entitling donors to a reduction on their income tax bill. This will apply to individuals and corporations. The donation will go to the TEARS veterinary outreach and mobile clinic fund.  TEARS is a recognised level 1 B-BBEE contributor and is classified as a public beneficiary organisation. This means that all donations to TEARS are tax-deductible, but donors will receive a section 18A tax receipt which allows them to claim the applicable tax relief. Since the onset of the new year, the animal rescue charity has seen an increase in the number of animals that need rescue and emergency veterinary care. Head of the fundraising department at TEARS, Lara Van Rensburg said many think they offer the service of a kennel and cattery. “While this is true, TEARS’ most critical service and the beating heart of its outreach and animal welfare operation is the veterinary outreach and mobile clinic,” she said. She added: “Together these are responsible for the rescue and treatment of up to 100 animals every month.” Van Rensburg said the veterinary treatment and community outreach per annum amounts to just over R6,18 million. “Without the financial support we receive from individuals, trusts and foundations, corporates, and via bequests, TEARS would not have survived the lean times or the impact of Covid-19 on its ability to fundraise or generate income to support the hardest hit and the most vulnerable in impoverished communities.” The veterinary clinic at TEARS sees an average of 50 - 60 patients per day. Their treatments include sterilisations, scheduled and emergency surgeries and a variety of tests that range from blood work and x-rays to ultrasounds. For the 2020/2021 year, TEARS rescued a total of 727 pets, vaccinated 3 314 animals, sterilised 6 091 animals and sterilised, treated and released 3 314 feral and community cats. In addition to this, 6 720 sick and injured animals were treated at their veterinary hospital, which included 3 432 consultations. To donate to TEARS, visit their website for more information.