Cape Town - Lights, camera and action. These are the words which will resonate among youth at the Manenberg Film School next week. The film school will host a week of hands-on free film training from industry professionals, who will be covering story-telling, camera technique and film making. Training takes place every six months and the film school has been running for more than two years. A former student at the film school, Delbrynn Brandt, said she learnt about lighting techniques, types of camera shots, doing a short film, sound recording and to work in a team. “I can now create my own short films, tell stories and generate income from my photography business,” she said. Another former graduate, Lona Bathandiwe Sipika, said the experience was amazing. “It was a great opportunity for me and my career moving forward.  Nick and Freddie helped us to operate a camera, how to hold it and what to press. I’ve already worked with two of three clients already. My plan moving forward is to study filming,” she said. Co-director, Freddie Reed, said: “Both Nick and I left our jobs in the UK and moved to Cape Town. We are both passionate about sharing the skills that we have learnt. We wanted to share these skills in Cape Town, especially in communities that did not have the same access that we did. “There are so many beautiful stories across Cape Town, the Flats in particular, which would be amazing to be told. We saw this as a vehicle and a way of people being enabled to tell stories that they want to share, from their communities, culture, the things they see as significant and equipping them with the skills. “The significant part of the film school is that people need to believe in themselves, to make something that they would not normally make and to access their creative side. We run a screening a few months later to show people and their families what they have done,” he said. Established in 2019, founder and co-director, Nick Lear, said: “I have a heart for justice, but also have these skills as a film editor. I saw our film school as a way of passing on my skills and helping people tell their stories.” Manenberg community member Roegshanda Pascoe said she welcomed this form of training. “It is more about the sustainability of the training and how we empower the children to apply this training they have received,” she said. For more details, WhatsApp: 0823114060. Weekend Argus