A sculpture to honour the work of Katrina Esau, the last fluent mother-tongue speaker of the indigenous San language, N|uu, has been created by artist Marlene Liebenberg. Liebenberg, who has been sculpting for the past three years, said she felt compelled to create a likeness of Katrina Esau. “Most of my work is of Khoisan people, who I admire, and I am inexplicably drawn to this first and oldest South African culture,” she said. She added: “I am a great admirer of Ouma Katrina in that she is one of the last few individuals still speaking the N|uu language, and hard at work trying to preserve it for future generations.” The sculpture was created through the Koena Art Institute’s legacy project. Launched in August, the project was open to commissions by the public to create art that would be dedicated to the legacy of loved ones. Esau said she was humbled she was even considered for the project. “It makes me feel good to know that this was done in my honour. When I am no longer around, this will stand as a memory of me,” she said. Her granddaughter, who lives with her, Claudia Snyman, said she was grateful to see people honouring her grandmother while she is still alive. “I am glad they’re giving her her flowers while they’re still alive. We appreciate it dearly,” she said. Over the past 15 years, Esau has dedicated her life to actively sharing and preserving the language, culture and heritage of the San people. Esau said it was important for her to preserve the language as this was what she grew up with. “This is my home language and it has great importance to me. It was my mother’s language and my father’s language,” she said. Having grown up on a white-owned farm in the Karoo, a time came when Esau recalled not being allowed to speak the language. “It broke my heart; how could I not speak the language of my heart,” she said. “Not being able to speak the language was so difficult and I am glad that that’s over,” she added. Esau, 89, still teaches the language at a school near her home in Upington. “I started a long time ago, but now that lockdown restrictions have eased, I can go back to doing so with full force,” she said. Esau said it warms her heart to be able to share the language with other people. “From children to adults, I love seeing their interest in wanting to learn the language and to see them speak it." Her passion for the preservation and identity of the language is rooted in the fact that it’s always been a part of her identity. “I don’t want people to forget this rich heritage. I want them to adopt the language and the culture,” she said. Esau is currently finalising the recording of an audio dictionary in N|uu. She said she wants young people to cling to the language. “They must listen to the language and not neglect the language and the culture. This is our conservation, it is how we preserve who we are,” she said. She added: “This is where your livelihood on earth will be enriched."