Cape Town - The family of Ashley Swart, who was missing for three years, has been left with unanswered questions after they were notified that he was buried by the state.  On Monday, Swart’s father, Jan, visited Tygerberg Hospital, where he was to review photographs and was told that fingerprint analysis was that of his son. Earlier this month, his family said he had suddenly vanished on May 12, 2019, after leaving his Atlantis home to visit a female friend in Table View. He was reported missing in July, and family claimed they had seen him as a passer-by, walking down a street during a news insert in 2020. They said they believed Swart might have been arrested, and they visited police stations, including contacting prisons in their wide search but found nothing. The family told Weekend Argus they were busy with DNA testing. They did not want to comment any further when contacted by the Weekend Argus. Track n Trace’s Chaz Thomas, who contacted a private investigator late last week to check his full name and details on the national police system, as Swart had previously been arrested for housebreaking following an alleged incident at a school. Police spokesperson Warrant officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed Swart was deceased and died the same year he vanished. “This office confirms that the investigating officer in the matter is informed that the person in question was declared deceased in the same year of the disappearance. “The investigation into the disappearance has thus been concluded.” Thomas said the case was a good example where information from families could be omitted and hindered the investigation and appealed for people to be honest to assist in cases. She had used the information about Swart’s criminal record after reading it in the newspaper. “Due to the article and the fact that there was a criminal record, I sent the information to my contact who is a private investigator and asked him to check forensics and many families must not hide things from us when we ask for information, which can help and draw up a profile and that is a starting point. “I have written a letter to police as they did not inform this family as they sat with his full name and surname and his address in Atlantis.” Weekend Argus