Cape Town - Efforts to address the Kariba weed infestation at the Kat River inflow of the Garden Route Dam was continued after 1 000 Salvinia weevils, an agent of biological pest control, were released to kill the infestation earlier this month. George Municipality, with the Outeniqua Canoe Club (OCC), junior researcher Matthew Paper from the Rhodes University Centre for Biological Control and local residents around the dam have been working collaboratively to control the recent infestation. As they often used the dam for canoeing activities, OCC member Petrus Crous said the club was very involved in this operation and thus felt passionately about restoring it. Crous said the infestation had been occurring on and off at the dam since 2013 and although a contractor had been hired to clear it, it was very difficult to eradicate completely because of the nature of the weed. “The infestation got particularly bad in 2020 and some spots are now flaring up quite badly,” he said. Paper said the weed will be impactful if not managed appropriately as it could cover the entire surface, block out light, de-oxygenate the water and change the ecosystem structure within the water. “Thankfully the way to control it in South Africa is through biological control, it’s the only necessary way. “There is no need for spray or any other mechanical control measures so we just release the biological agent (the Salvinia weevils) to control the spread,” said Paper. Earlier this month, Crous, Paper and Parks superintendent Tyrone April visited the dam and released 1 000 Salvinia weevils to control the infestation and eat the plant. “Prior releases have shown positive signs of Salvinia weevils causing Kariba weed to die back. “To that end, the municipality continues to strengthen co-operation between all parties involved in the localised rearing facility that will ensure a stable supply of Salvinia weevils in future,” said the municipality. When asked about the weed’s potential to pollute the water supply, George Municipality spokesperson Chantèl Edwards said the dam itself was a raw water source that fed into the municipal raw water balancing reservoirs before being diverted into the raw water treatment plant which supplied their potable water. The Garden Route Dam supplied George and surrounds which fall under George (Wilderness, Victoria Bay and Herolds Bay). All partners in this collaboration said management of the Kariba weed at the Garden Route Dam was an ongoing process and the municipality would continuously assess the options available to control the spread and density. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus