DA community safety standing committee chairperson in the legislature Reagen Allen plans to approach the provincial police commissioner to tackle the gun problem on the Cape Flats. This comes as Damian Hendricks, 32, was sentenced in the Wynberg Regional court on Wednesday for his part in a murder committed in Retreat in 2018.  Police issued a statement saying Hendricks was sentenced to 18 years behind bars on charges of murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Provincial Police Commissioner, Lieutenant General Thembisile Patekile, lauded the investigating officer Sergeant Hlaoli Mmola for his work on the case. The day before during a ministerial briefing to the National Council of Provinces (NCOP), the national government said they were open to engagements to create a dedicated site for the destruction of confiscated and surrendered firearms in the Western Cape.  Allen has raised a question about a dedicated destruction site for guns to help eradicate the problem of stolen firearms. Allen said: “Every year, confiscated guns make their way back onto our streets and, by the South African Police Service’s own admission, one of the main contributors towards this issue is the lack of additional suitable premises to store the firearms. “Therefore, I will be writing to the Provincial Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Thembisile Patekile to request a meeting to discuss what are the next steps to make this crucial service a reality.” Currently, all confiscated illegal firearms  are sent to Gauteng on a bi-annual basis to be destroyed. Allen said this was not just the case for the Western Cape, but for all of the country’s police stations. “With the police force already crippled by maladministration from Pretoria, the present system creates immense challenges with the safeguarding of these weapons and the transportation thereof within an adequate time frame. “Coupled to the endemic inefficiencies at the Central Firearm Registry, the gaps in the system are often exploited. It is already well known that these criminals rely on the supply of illegal firearms, yet nothing is being done to stop this issue once and for all.” Allen said back in 2019, the Standing Committee on Community Safety was informed by SAPS that the establishment of a dedicated destruction site was already on the national agenda.  “We remain deeply concerned that no progress has been made thus far. I will continue to call on the minister to turn words into actions and ensure that a dedicated destruction site in the Western Cape becomes a reality.” Allen said better co-operation was a priority as “for far too long, residents have been the victims of national politicking”.