While the DA has proposed an extra hour of school a day, one union is heading to court because of overcrowded classrooms. body.copy...: As schools reopened for full-time learning this week, the Educators Union of SA (Eusa) was preparing to head to court over overcrowded classes.  The union’s provincial chairperson, André de Bruyn, said the union was of the view that the national Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga’s announcement of a return to full-time tuition was heartless and ruthless towards pupils and teachers. “Her announcement is sheer sabotage of social justice and ignores that Covid-19 is still a serious life threat, and demands that we observe social distance, wear masks and wash hands at all possible times in all public places, including schools,” De Bruyn said.  “Her announcement fails to acknowledge that schools in townships and rural areas are overcrowded. “Eusa calls for the immediate provision of mobile classrooms, or park home classrooms at all schools in the country. “Eusa continues to demand a ratio of 1:30/5 in all classrooms in the country and calls for the provision of PPE at all schools for both learners and teachers.” Meanwile, DA MP Baxolile Nodada said the party had proposed three key points to help with the recovery plan strategy. One of the proposals was the extension of the school day by an hour. Nodada said that it would be a differentiated approach to recover the curriculum.  “This does not mean that it’s a definite. The plan here is to catch up and strengthen the support in learning areas such as reading, writing and numeracy. “It will be a utilised, trimmed curriculum, and can be used if there is a need and a budget for it. It’s an option schools can explore.” Nodada said they were also focusing on reducing teachers’ administrative duties by implementing a full day of learning. The third proposal was to encourage retired teachers and professionals to provide the extra hour.  “This approach would be funded by the Department of Basic Education.  “As we speak, eight out of 10 young people can’t read and write with meaning, so the curriculum would focus on the basics. “In principle, the curriculum needs a recovery plan and these are the suggestions we are tabling. However, the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) said their focus was on ensuring that pupils attained the core skills that were required for progression to the next grade and did not see the need to extend the school day. Western Cape Education Minister Debbie Schäfer said that a lot of work had been done on core skills already.  “We are of the view that extending the school day is not required at this stage and will place an unreasonable burden on our teachers and learners.”  Parent Renaldo Clayton agreed with Schäfer, saying that pupils already had to put in extra hours at home to catch up.  “Children can only concentrate for a certain amount of hours, so expecting them to do more could also be a discouragement.   Schäfer said even though the return to normal schooling happened without incident, there had been problems that had been addressed on a case-by-case basis at the district offices.  “The WCED is collating information from the eight districts to determine which schools cannot return to full capacity for various reasons.   “For example, three schools have reported that they cannot bring back all learners due to infrastructure damage (and therefore a shortage of classrooms) as a result of fire damage and vandalism. “Repairs are required and they have requested to continue with rotation for the interim which is being considered.“Circuit managers are also liaising with schools, monitoring class sizes and seeing how timetables can be restructured in order to better accommodate learners. This is a process - which is currently underway.” Kerry Mauchline, a spokesperson for the Western Cape education department confirmed that Class ratios in Secondary schools were 1:35, while in primary schools its 1: 36. The provincial average is 1:35.9.The department also previously confirmed to Weekend Argus that of the 984 primary schools, only around 12% – 118 – were able to adhere to the social distancing rule. Mauchline further added that R20 million has been set aside in this financial year for Covid-19 related expenses.“Schools can contact district offices about any major shortages in protective materials.