Cape Town - The death of Khayelitsha-born writer, poet, teacher, and director Primrose Mrwebi has been described as a huge loss for Cape Town’s arts industry. On Monday, friends, colleagues, and art lovers in the city took to social media expressing their shock at her passing and paying tribute to Mrwebi, who died over the weekend. Mrwebi, 46, a graduate of the Waterfront Theatre School, was a frequent contributor at literary festivals across the Western Cape, and the Baxter Theatre’s Zabalaza Theatre Festival facilitator and adviser. Through her PrimPoetry performance art foundation, Mrwebi gave young and up-and-coming artists a platform to showcase their skills and has been described as a cheerleader for many. Close friend Faniswa Yisa said Mrwebi owned the art spaces with confidence and believed in visibility, especially for black women. “PrimPoetry is a testament of how passionate she was about finding new voices, how generous she was with sharing her knowledge and validating everyone’s voice. She often compared writing to breathing. Her words will forever breathe in our memories and in written and oral archives,” she said. Actress and theatre-maker Chuma Sopotela said she would remember Mrwebi for her bravery, strength, warm heart, and unbelievable smile. Sopotela said Mrwebi propelled many to be the best versions of themselves. “I do not know what we have done to not deserve her in our presence but whoever decided it was enough I would like to tell them they were mistaken. We could never have enough of her out-of-this-world personality that stood out from the rest. She gave each of us her undivided attention. She was honest and loved love. She treasured friendships and friends,” Sopotela said. Cultural Affairs and Sports MEC Anroux Marais said Mrwebi was a shining light in the arts sector. Marais said Mrwebi actively worked to give back to young artists and her support to the Zabalaza festival was invaluable. “We have lost a great woman in the arts and culture sector with her passing. Our condolences go out to Primrose’s family, friends and colleagues. We will continue celebrating her life for many years to come and her legacy will live on in the art of the young people whom she inspired,” Marais said. mthuthuzeli.ntseku@inl.co.za Cape Argus