A week after a gruesome double murder of a  young mother and her 2-year-old daughter rocked Stilbaai, family and friends bid their final farewell at the funeral on Saturday. Coffins of the victims stood in a church hall during the funeral service as a reminder of the killing that took place on on Valentine’s Day. The bodies of Annemique Manho and her daughter, Almique, were found inside their home in Melkhoutfontein by her husband Alfred and their 9-year-old son Alex. A Family member, Bradley Marcus, said they were left devastated by the incident which robbed them of a future with “the most wonderful person who always wanted to help others”.  “It breaks our hearts. She spent her life helping others. All I am asking for is justice in this matter”, Marcus said. He said although Manho “touched so many lives in different ways”, most people at the funeral remembered her “loud, infectious laugh”. “Annemique’s husband is too distraught to speak. Her parents, too, as they lost their eldest child.  The town has never witnessed such magnitude of violence. “But over the past few years drug abuse has been on the rise,” said Marcus. body.copy...: According to the police the bodies were discovered by Manho’s husband and son. Manho allegedly had stab wounds while the child was drowned in a bath of water.  “The information we received was that the incident happened during the day.  “Manho’s husband, who is a teacher, was at school.  When he and their son got home later they could not gain entry as the door was locked from the inside. “The son climbed through the window to unlock the door from inside. When he opened the door, he told the father that his mother and sister were dead,” said Marcus. The incident has been widely condemned by residents and community leader who will be staging a protest today. Community members planned to hold a march in protest against gender-based violence today.  A suspect in connection with the murders is still in police custody. On social media people from far and wide extended sympathy to the grieving family. “I don’t personally know the mother and child but in spirit we are related and as such I share your pain,” wrote one person.