DURBAN - Many councillors in the eThekwini Municipality are allegedly “working” from the boots of their cars as they wait to be allocated offices months after they were elected in the local government elections. The DA and the EFF claimed that some of their councillors have no place where they could meet with their constituents and perform their jobs. Thabani Mthethwa, of the DA, says his party has written to the speaker Thabani Nyawose to highlight the issue. He said the only councillors that already have offices are those working from community halls or other municipal buildings. He said of the 69 councillors his party has, 18 have offices.  “Councillors’ offices form part of the tools of trade that are provided to councillors at the beginning of their terms in order to equip them to effectively carry out their constitutional duties which include meeting and consulting with residents to assist them with issues of service delivery. “Instead, councillors have been forced to limit consultation with residents, use their vehicle boots to store documents and have to meet with people on the side of the road. This is not only a crisis but a serious security risk for councillors. “As a result of this, members of the public are severely compromised in that they are not receiving the services that they deserve because of the failure of the municipality to procure these much needed public offices. “It is completely absurd that four months after the highly contested local government elections, members of the public find themselves in this compromising position,” he said. EFF councillor Thabane Miya said there are many of his councillors that are without offices.  “Even I as an exco member had to lay a complaint with the help of the IFP. We have also made it clear that we want our councillors to be allocated offices in the community that they live in so that they are able to service those communities,” he said. Mluleki Mtungwa, the mayoral spokesperson, said there are councillors who have not been allocated offices.  He said the number of these councillors was small. “The councillors that are using public ( municipal spaces) like your Sizakala centres have offices, it is those that will be located in private spaces that the municipality will have to procure space for. That process is under way,”  he said.  THE MERCURY