Cape Town - It’s that time of the year again where the thoughts of roses, anonymous love letters and boxes of chocolates are on everyone’s mind – Valentine’s Day.  Kfm’s Carl Wastie and Zoë Brown have already found their radio soulmates, and this month of love they invite you to fall in love with “The Flash Drive”. Wastie has been in the industry for thirteen years, and brings his own brand of creativity and wit to every show and has a passion for making radio that connects the diverse population that is the Western Cape. Brown is the talented SA Radio Award winning Traffic Presenter on the show who makes the bad news about the road sound so good.  Their chemistry adds so much spice to lives of KFM listeners, and Brown’s quirky Celebrity Birthday traffic makes her so much more than just someone telling you about highways and train delays. You are the ultimate work besties - working together on TV in the morning and in the afternoons on Kfm 94.5.  Are you really as good friends as what you sound like? Carl: We are such great friends and confidants so what you hear is what you will get if you ever connect with us outside of studio. We are very different people which really makes us even closer as we always have so much to share about life and the way we see the world. I can also confirm that I am her parents favourite out of us two, just saying! Zoe: Carl already knows that one day when I become a mom, he will be my baby’s Godfather! I love working with him and often joke that he’s my 2nd longest relationship! And even though we share both platforms together, I don’t think I could ever get sick of him. Do you think it makes the show better? Carl: Our show is organic so our natural chemistry will always spill over into the show which is the magic of “The Flash Drive”. Two real human friends engaging with you every afternoon. Zoe: What he said. Why do you think listeners love the show? And for those who haven’t listened why should they tune in? Carl: People love the show because it’s not a “show” in the traditional sense. I like to think that it’s a social gathering of people experiencing the world together in their cars, kitchens, rooms and businesses.  If you haven’t listened to the show yet then I will not sell you on it, just give it a try and I’m certain you will find something or someone you’ll love. Zoe: We literally never know what we’ll blurt out on air. We constantly surprise ourselves and the audience with what we say each day. Because this is who we are. This is us. This is the Flash Drive. The show has loads of great features - what’s your favourite? Carl: I love all the shows moments from “Net Flieks”, which sees Zoe and I act out a scene from a popular movie in Afrikaans on a Monday, to “The Flash Word“ which is a general knowledge winner stays on game that brings so many great personalities to air.  Everyday of “The Flash Drive” is different and that’s why I find new ways to love the things we do every single day. Zoe: It’s impossible to choose just one feature! If you haven’t listened to “The Flash Drive” past 6pm – I would highly encourage you to try it – “Switch The Hits At Six” has a different theme each day, and it’s guaranteed to get you laughing, dancing, crying and singing (in no particular order). What are you planning for the show for the month of love / Valentine’s Day? Carl: We plan to connect more people on air this month and continue loving what we do for the right reasons which is to serve you through the medium that is radio. Tune into “The Flash Drive” with Carl Wastie, Monday to Fridays, 3 – 7pm for on-air chemistry and feel great music. Visit www.kfm.co.za for more. Cape Argus