CAPE TOWN - Two more suspects were arrested in Rosettenville in Johannesburg in connection with an attempted cash-in-transit (CIT) heist that turned deadly, bringing the total number of those arrested to 10. The pair were part of at least 25 suspects who were allegedly on their way to commit a CIT robbery when they were intercepted by a multidisciplinary SAPS team led by the National CIT Task Team in Moffat View, in the south of Johannesburg. Police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said a manhunt was still under way to apprehend the remaining suspects. “Various policing disciplines worked tirelessly throughout the night combing the scene where the task team managed to corner the group of heavily armed suspects. “During the ordeal, eight suspects were shot and killed, 10 suspects were arrested, two of which are under police guard in hospital. “The team also seized 10 high-performance vehicles at an identified address as well as six AK-47 machine guns, three rifles as well as explosives. “Today, the provincial commissioner for Gauteng, Lieutenant-General Elias Mawela, visited the injured members in hospital where they are receiving medical treatment. “Three members of the SAPS, which include, an Airborne Law Enforcement Officer (ALEO) and two members from the Moffat View police station, were shot and wounded during the attack. “In addition, a JMPD officer was also among the wounded officers. One member from the SAPS has since been discharged and others are still receiving medical treatment. The provincial commissioner has confirmed that the health of the injured members has since improved and all affected are in high spirits.” Since its establishment in February 2020, the SAPS team, which is led by a woman commander, has been responsible for the arrest of 202 suspects who have been linked to CIT-related crimes. Thirteen of these suspects are among the country's top 13 most wanted criminals who have been involved in a spate of aggravated robberies. “The multidisciplinary team consisting of the National CIT Task Team, Crime Intelligence, members of the SAPS Airwing, the Tactical Response Teams (TRT), K9, JMPD, EMPD, Gauteng Highway Patrol as well as RTMC ought to be commended for their hard work and dedication in pursuing these criminals in the latest breakthrough. This latest incident ought to send a clear message to all criminals that we are coming for all of them and that there is no longer a space for criminals to operate freely in South Africa. I also take this opportunity to wish all injured a speedy recovery"', said SAPS commissioner General Khehla Sitole. While a manhunt is still under way to apprehend the remaining suspects, a call is being made for these suspects to hand themselves over to their nearest police station. Members of the public who have information on the whereabouts of these suspects are also encouraged to contact their nearest police station or call the Crime Stop Hotline on 08600 10111. Cape Times