Cape Town – Several arrests have been made following cable theft in various parts of Macassar.  This comes after residents, metro police, metal theft unit and SAPS joined forces and launched a manhunt for cable thieves in the area after thousands were left without power. Residents of Macassar, Firgrove and surrounding areas were left in darkness after cable thieves stole copper cables belonging to Eskom. According to the Provincial SAPS spokesperson, Captain Frederick van Wyk about eight arrests were made from the operation. “Our detectives will continue to work hand in hand with the community to ensure more arrests are made on theft,’’ he said. On Friday around 11.37pm, residents heard a loud bang and immediately after that power was out. Thousands of residents were left angered and frustrated without electricity due to the power outage. One of the community members Roseline Vries, said the incidents of cable thefts cost her too much, including her health. She said she suffers from asthma and needs a nebuliser that is electrical. ‘’I was hospitalised due to the effects of the incident caused by cable theft. My expenses accumulated since the incident occurred, as I then had to additionally pay the private paramedic services who responded to my call just to assist me to breath and transport me to be hospitalised. Funds that I don’t have, but I needed the service urgently, while being well equipped at home with my needed nebuliser,’’ she said. Over and above load shedding, which already angered residents, they were now also left without electricity because of cable thieves. Efforts by the community greatly assisted the law enforcement agencies which resulted in the arrests as well as the recovery of a 20-metre copper cable which was positively identified as Eskom property. Ward Councillor, Peter Helfrich said cable theft not only disrupts the supply of electricity in households, but it also has a significant effect on the economy. ‘’It is important for cable thieves and other criminals in this ward to understand that they will no longer get away with crime. Residents are fed-up with crime and have committed to work with me to root out crime in our ward. I thank the residents that worked with me and the law enforcement agencies to track down these cable thieves. These criminals must face the full might of the law,’’ he said. Weekend Argus