Cape Town - Gavin Burgess’ journey started as a physical education teacher and that is what nurtured his love for sports. Today, he is one of the longest-serving Western Province Athletics (WPA) officials. He's been a WPA official since 1999 and was a Western Province Schools athletics official from 1980 to 2017. Burgess is the senior technical official for WPA and is qualified to officiate in all athletics disciplines; track and field, road running, cross country and race walk. He represented SA a few times as an official at the Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) African Senior Athletics Championships. He was also an official at the Athletics South African Championships (junior and senior) and the South African Schools Championships (track and field and cross country). His worked with a number of track and field stars over the years, including Breyton Poole, who won gold in the high jump event at the 2017 IAAF World U18 Championships, 400m world record holder, Wayde van Niekerk, and Geraldine Pillay, who bagged the silver medal in the 100m sprint at the 2006 Commonwealth Games. Burgess said he officiates for the love of the sport. “I feel a great sense of pride knowing that I have made a contribution (in the lives of many athletes). I applied the competition rules fairly to enable a good competition, especially when having to qualify for selection. When officiating, be humble, fair to all (athletes, coaches, parents),  know your rules, be approachable and show respect,” said Burgess, who believes it is important to stay hydrated during competitions. “It is very important to drink water during the hot summer season. We need to keep hydrated. A certain event can last up to an hour, before a break. Soft drinks are also provided during competition, however, officials prefer bottled water. “When it comes to eating (before a meet) coffee and a peanut butter sandwich would suffice for me. During championships, a cooked meal would be provided. If a domestic event, either bring your own (food) or a burger and cold drink would be provided (if it is a full day programme). Evenings (if provincial/national/international championships), only if you officiate till late at night, then a cooked meal could well be provided,” he said. Burgess was promoted through the ranks, from teacher, head of department, deputy principal at Highlands Primary School in Woodlands in 2009, and retired in July 2017. “I started out as a physical education teacher at the start of my career in 1978, hence the love for school sports and then, later on, federation sports. I have participated in road running events such as the Two Oceans Ultra Marathon and Comrades Marathon. “I would encourage more people to get involved with athletics by attending courses and upskilling. After all, I am not getting younger. My wife, Irene and daughter, Meryl are also qualified officials, and are just as involved at all our events. We support each other, hence, the eagerness to officiate. I have a thriving vegetable garden which keeps me alive and relaxed,” he added. A colleague of Burgess, Veronica Desai, said: “It is an absolute pleasure to work with Gavin. He is such a professional when it comes to doing the job. Up until today, he will still consult his rulebook (our bible), when in doubt of how to rule on a situation. At home, when relaxing, he's a pleasant and kind person.” Weekend Argus