Cape Town - The wife of Fredie Blom, who was believed to have been the oldest man in South Africa at the time of his death at the age of 116, has died. Jeanette Blom, 87, died peacefully at her home in Delft this morning just after 8am surrounded by her grandchildren. Jeanette would have celebrated her 88th birthday on Thursday. Jeanette suffered a severe stroke a month ago and was hospitalised for two weeks and later discharged with the option of rehabilitation. The family said Jeanette decided to spend her final days at home with her family and the community she loved. They said it was moments of peace and serenity and love as their home was filled daily with loved ones and community members offering their help. Jeanette and Blom were married for more than 50 years and had no children together. They had met at a dance in Philippi and later moved to Grassy Park before making Delft their home for more than 30 years. Blom died at the age of 116 in August 2020 after becoming bedridden. Jeanette had two children who have since died and leaves behind her loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. The Weekend Argus team visited Jeanette in November last year when she said her mobility had been affected and she needed a walker to get around. She said she missed her husband every day. Rosaline Arendse, Jeanette’s granddaughter, said they were at peace because their grandmother had been surrounded by family as she breathed her last breath and that she had prepared herself for her final hours. “She was in hospital two weeks ago after she suffered a stroke,” said Arendse. She was sent home with the option of rehabilitation and chose to be at home. “She was doing well and began to eat but could not talk much. “She was surrounded by her community and family daily who offered to help us with anything. “This morning at 7.45am when the children left for school we were all surrounded by her and had called the ambulance and then she went peacefully. “The time we had with her was graceful and everyone had the opportunity to be with her.” Community activist and neighbour Christene Hoedemaker, who had been part of the family's lives for decades, said they were saddened by her passing. “She was like a grandmother to our children and a mother to me. “She was a mother to all.” Blom (Fredie) was born in Adelaide in the Eastern Cape and worked as a gardener and chopped wood in the bush until the ripe old age of 106 and even smoked tobacco until the age of 116. Blom first made headlines at the age of 110 and became a household name. His home soon became a media frenzy, with each birthday celebration filled with residents, family, the media and politicians. Blom had also recalled surviving the 1918 Spanish flu and told of how he had lost his sister at a young age. Despite efforts to confirm that he was the oldest man in South Africa at the time, the Guinness Book of World Records were contacted but nothing was verified, including the details of the Department of Home Affairs. Weekend Argus