Three weeks after schools reopened some pupils have not yet begun lessons in Stellenbosch because of overcrowding. Some pupils at Kayamandi High School were forced to wait in the school hall until they are assigned to classrooms. More than 1 000 Grade 1 and 8 pupils still need to find a school in the province. A member of Kayamandi’s School Governing Board (SGB) who spoke on condition of anonymity  described the situation as “intolerable”, and said  although the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) had been notified it had “merely acknowledged” the correspondence. “There can be no effective and meaningful learning in those circumstances. We are frustrated because the officials seem not to take the situation seriously enough for them to urgently intervene. We requested five additional teachers,” the SGB member said. Since 2019 the number of pupils at the school grew from 1 200 to about 1 500, according to a local ward councillor who visited the school this week. Ayanda Tomose said the school received five mobile classrooms in 2020 but now needed at least four additional ones. He called on the provincial department to devise a plan to tackle overcrowded classrooms. “During the visit I learnt that there were close to 100 learners who still had no classrooms and no teachers. Assistant teachers take turns just to make sure that learners are well behaved,” said Tomose. On the other hand, at the Ikaya Primary School where there were “three extra teachers” and a large number of pupils in a classroom, there was no space to put mobile classrooms, according to Tomose. He said with the return of pupils on a full-time basis, education officials should have anticipated challenges that schools might face. The education department said it was “aware” of the situation in Kayamandi and had granted an additional teaching post for Kayamandi High School. “The school has requested further posts - which is now being considered. At Ikaya Primary School they have also submitted a request for mobiles. This too is being considered,” said department spokesperson, Bronagh Hammond said. She said the department was also collating information from the eight districts to determine which schools could not return to full capacity for various reasons. “We have to get feedback from all districts in order to determine where resources need to be distributed or prioritised,” Hammond said. She said the number of unplaced pupils in Grades 1 and 8 stood at 1 067. The National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) warned that it was critical to have all pupils back at school to deal with the rising number of drop-outs. Naptosa executive director Basil Manuel said principals were in a difficult position and were “forced to enrol” pupils as they could not turn them away. “In the Western Cape, the government has to pay attention to the severe cases in township schools,” Manuel said. Manuel said the promise of dignity in the new South Africa  had never been seen in some areas by pupils. “Quality schooling is about dignity. When as a teacher you are sitting with about 60 pupils in a classroom there’s a thin line that separates teaching from child minding and crowd control,” said Manuel. He added that his union would soon demand an explanation from the department on pupils who still had not been placed. A frustrated parent whose son was still unplaced said they were both at the point of “depression”. “How do I convince my son that it’s not his fault that he has not been accepted for Grade 8 at any school when all his former classmates were accepted? All his school life he’s been at the southern suburbs’ schools and his last school was a feeder for a particular high school. But they have not accepted him there,” said the mother. She said although they were granted access to online learning the experience was different to being in a classroom. “My child has a constitutional right to education. We have identified schools where he would thrive but now his access is being blocked for some reason,” she said. The department gave no indication when all pupils would be placed and did not answer questions related to the placement at the southern suburbs’ schools. The first term for coastal schools ends on March 25.