Cape Town - Ashley Oosthuizen of George is one of many South African women inside prisons in Thailand mainly for drug related offences.  At two prisons, seven women and four men who are SA citizens, are waiting to know their fate. Thailand has a population of only 70 million but ranks sixth in the world for high prison populations. According to Thailand’s World Brief prison data, 285 572 prisoners are behind bars, as of figures released in 2021 with 144 central prisons and by 2015, the capacity was 217 000 and grew to 374 052 with 288 648 being drug offenders. Vanessa Goosen, a former Miss SA semi-finalist, knows exactly what its like because she was imprisoned in Thailand for 16 years. While in prison, she learnt to speak the language and was part of the church movement inside prison. Goosen revealed that at the Lard Yao Women Correctional Institution a prison where she herself had been detained, seven South African women, and four men at another prison, were waiting to hear their fate. Ashley’s mother, Lynette Blignaut said all they could do now was to wait for the outcome of their appeal.  “The case is closed and the document is closed,” she said. “The appeal has already been made and it's in the hands of the courts now and if this fails we will speak to our lawyer to see what the next step is. Ashley was crying and laughing during our first video call and all she is keeping her focus on is on Jesus.” Blignaut said they did not want to say much at this stage  as it could impact proceedings or their contact with Oosthuizen once a month. Goosen has spoken to Ashley’s parents and continues to encourage them. In 1994, Goosen, then 21 and pregnant, was arrested and convicted of drug trafficking charges. She says she was tricked by her boyfriend’s friend who asked her to take engineering books from the country and security officials found 1.7kg of heroin hidden in the hard cover and spine. Her daughter Felicia had to leave the prison at age three and was taken care of by Goosen’s friend in South Africa. After two appeals, one of which was rejected, Goosen was granted amnesty by the Thai king and was released in 2010. Goosen is still in contact with the missionaries who had given her hope and helped to bring her daughter to South Africa and keeps in contact with former prison guards, who use her story to inspire prisoners. She also continues to encourage prisoners. “They (missionaries) visited me inside prison, Mr and Mrs Holmes, they were so good to me, they were there when Felicia was released and helped to get her home to my friend and gave her a birthday party at age three, and Felicia visited them when she was 24 and they were so happy to see her.” Goosen said prison life was tough and that they had to fend for themselves, relying on monetary donations from friends or family or parcels while some prisoners had no contact with the outside world. “I know how it feels to be locked up and some inmates do not hear from their families,” she said. “At the prison where I was, you had to purchase everything. Ashley is not at the prison where I was yet, but she is supposed to go there because she has a big sentence and due to Covid-19 there have been no visits, they only do the video calls. “You get nothing inside prison, not even your uniform. It doesn't matter what you go through, painful or hurtful, push through, you will come through on the other side. And not short-cuts, get through it so you can get healed properly. “ To give other prisoners hope, after seeing me after 16-and-half years inside prison, that they too must not lose hope, that they will get out one day to use their time wisely; learn what you can, for me, you have another opportunity to relook at your life, and rewrite your story. I am in contact with the prison guards and they encourage prisoners by telling my story.” Goosen has offered her assistance to Ashley’s family should they need it.  “I contacted the dad, he said they have their ups and downs, they said they are okay and I spoke to the mother, and she said Ashley is strong and that they have everything under control and that they trusted in God. I did speak to someone in Thailand about the prison there where she is, and they are not allowed to have any visits and it has been so for a year. “I started visiting prisons when I  came back home and when the gates were closed on me, I would get anxiety attacks and at one prison I had to speak to myself , that I will walk out again.”  The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) said over 790 South African citizens are in prisons around the world, 71 percent for drug-related offences.  Dirco spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele said they were aware of Ashley’s arrest and that the South African Embassy in Bangkok were providing the family with assistance. * Goosen can be reached at admin@vgse.co.za or info@vgse.co.za for motivational speaking at prisons or events  Weekend Argus