Cape Town - Until the age of nine, Adriaan Jack Booysen crawled on his belly like a snake to get around.  He was born with a condition known as Arthrogryposis, a disorder characterised by multiple contractures of the joints.  Today, he is the titleholder of the South African Para National Table Tennis Championship and is setting his sights on keeping the position and exploring the possibility of the Olympics. This weekend, Booysen is set to fight to keep his 2019 title as national champion during the Para tournament to be held in Bloemfontein. The tournament did not take place for two years due to the coronavirus pandemic. He will present Mitchells Plain Royals Table Tennis Club. He also has his provincial colours in table tennis and swimming. It was at the age of 10 that Booysen learnt to walk for the first time after being taught by staff at Astra School. Little did they know they were grooming and planting the seed of a national champion one day. Today, Booysen competes against able-bodied persons during practice sessions and does so using one hand and the other hand to support his crutch. Booysen walks using the support of two crutches and is set to undergo a possible hip replacement soon. Booysen is married to Madie Booysen, who has been his greatest supporter together with their three children. After leaving school in Stellenbosch, where he had been part of the table tennis team, Booysen drifted away from the sport for two decades until his wife encouraged him. “I learnt to play table tennis from the age of 12 at school. In 1996, I won my first gold medal in Port Elizabeth at a tournament. I did swimming and received province colours, but my heart was with table tennis. I was fascinated by a junior back then who was in a wheelchair and had very little mobility, and he was an excellent player. “I soon began playing against able-bodied people, and I received my Boland Colours, and the rest is history.” In 2018, his wife saw a poster in their local community hall and encouraged Booysen to compete after 24 years. Madie said she had never seen her husband play but knew he was good and could one day be seen at the Olympics. “We took our children that day to the venue where the lessons were for table tennis, and I said it is not for them, but my husband and they were so impressed that day when my husband played against able-bodied men. “Westley McCloud, the head coach, came to me and said your husband is going to go places. I told my husband, one day, I will be a table tennis wife, watching him when he gets to the Olympics. He is showing us as able-bodied people that we can do so much more.” Madie said the family had been raising funds for Booysen’s trip, but he was still in need of further funding. However, he does not like handouts but is asking people to bless him. “I want to do a walk in Strandfontein before he has his hip surgery to show people here is a national legend in your community at night no-one knows the pain he has due to his condition, but I am there.” Mitchells Plain Royals Table Tennis head Coach Westley McCloud said they were proud of him. “When we first spotted Adriaan Booysen in 2018, the chairman and myself saw a lot of potential. We knew we could work and make him a champion. “He entered the Cape Town trials and made the team with flying colours, and he went to represent Cape Town table tennis at a national level and did very well. “In 2019, he represented the province at a national level and went into the finals, and he won that final. He became the SA champion in his class, and it was a proud moment for his family and club. He has the willpower of wanting more and to improve all the time.” Weekend Argus