Cape Town - There are scars are on her face and her hair has been dyed black. Danielle Coetzee, 25, has transformed from the chubby blonde teenager who left her home in George in 2011 after traumatic events. A tent she shared with her five dogs in the bush along the N1, in Goodwood, is what she has called home for years. Coetzee has triumphed, having faced molestation, rape, prostitution and homelessness. She’s barely 1.5m tall and weighs about 60kg. But beneath her small demeanour, is a survivor who never gave up loving and living. The love she has is shared with the four puppies she rescued, one of them affectionately called Scary Pants. Coetzee is preparing to move back home to live with her mother, Patricia Huisamen, and brother, Patrick Coetzee, whom she last saw when she was 14. Coetzee spoke to Patrick for the first time in more than a decade this week and the two exchanged photographs via their cellphones. Patrick then hitch-hiked to Cape Town this week and arrived in Goodwood on Thursday night to met his sister face-to-face. The two are planning to leave for George. He said he was overjoyed to have found his sister.  “I am so happy, words cannot describe it. We just want her back home.  “I hitch-hiked and arrived at Cape Town International Airport. People were reluctant to help me and I began to walk and, after 1km, someone gave me a lift to Goodwood police station. It was raining and it is something I would never want to experience again but it was worth it because I found my sister.” On social media, Coetzee used an alias under the surname Davids. She was found by the organisation Track n Trace, following many years of searching by her mother. Coetzee shared her experiences, making it clear that she was not embarrassed about her them or where she had lived. “As I grew bigger and older, I grew wiser,” she said. “At one stage I owned a flat, I had everything. For me to live this life is not a problem, I have been living like this for almost four years. I used to live in a wendy house and now I am living here in a tent.  “I do not care what people think of me or what they tell me. I am happy the way I am now. I still have a roof over my head. And I have my four dogs.” Coetzee said she used drugs at a young age and was sent to rehabilitation but ran away. She decided not to return home because a relative, who has since died, had molested her. “I was about 14, my mother wanted to send me to rehabilitation and I didn’t want to go,” she said. “I ran away from rehabilitation and went home. I fetched my dog, Wollie, and I took him for a walk. I took the dog back and I came back to the place where I was walking the dog and I never went home again after that. I hitch-hiked, using taxis and trucks.” When Coetzee arrived in Cape Town, she was alone and decided to sell her body on the streets to make money.  She said her boyfriend rescued her. “I found myself working on the streets as a prostitute for nearly four years. The man I am involved with now, he took me off from the streets and said I cannot throw myself away. Being a prostitute, I was experimenting and I went overboard with myself. I am still trying to find myself now.” Coetzee said she had heard stories that her mother had been searching for her and was happy to meet Chaz Thomas and her team from Track n Trace last week. “My mother, I was wondering where she was, so I tried to contact her via Facebook,” she said.  “I was hearing from people in Voortrekker Road that there are people looking for me. When I saw Chaz and her partner came here, I must say ’thank you’ to them because they brought me and my mother and brother Patrick together again. “I talk everyday with my brother on the phone. My family will be fetching me and taking me back to George. I have been communicating with my mother every night since we found one another.” She said it was only through God’s mercy that she was still alive. “ At the end of the day, we have to thank God. I have been raped, God has given me another chance, I will not lose the battle, I will keep fighting.” Thomas said they were grateful to be part of the process. “Even now, I still have tears of joy and it was only God who could have brought us this far.” Weekend Argus