CAPE TOWN - The use of digital technology in special schools for learners with severe intellectual disabilities can help them develop important life skills. This is the view of the deputy principal of the Rusthof School for Learners with Special Educational Needs, Dr Zelda Botha, who recently obtained her doctorate in educational support at Stellenbosch University. Her research focused on the role that digital technology can play in promoting skills development for learners with severe intellectual disabilities. Botha has been an educator for 29 years, of which 24 years have been in special education, and said digital technology should be considered a priority in special schools. As part of her study, Botha requested teaching staff and a speech therapist at a Western Cape school for learners with severe intellectual disabilities to complete an online questionnaire. She also held focus group discussions and individual interviews with them to determine how often they use digital technology in the classroom and how many years of experience they have in using this technology. Botha said she chose the specific school because teaching staff and learners use digital technology as part of the Smart Classroom Project. A smart classroom has wide-area internet access and technological aids such as a data projector, a visualiser, an interactive whiteboard, Beamz, Mimio/eBeam devices and a laptop for educators. Botha said her research has shown that digital technology helps with the development of skills learners need to function optimally in the workplace, at home and in society, and also to be independent and spend their free time meaningfully. “Digital technology with visual illustrations, actions and movements makes skills development attractive and interesting for these learners. The use of interesting and interactive software leads to a higher level of involvement in various activities and skills learnt. “Because digital technology accommodates learners’ different learning styles such as visual, auditory and kinaesthetic learning styles, learners can be more successful. They are less anxious and frustrated and experience a greater sense of accomplishment and enjoyment. “The application of digital technology in the classroom improves these learners’ thinking skills, creativity and their ability to solve and communicate problems.” Botha said that on a more personal level, they will be able to apply their functional skills in their everyday routines, household tasks, work routines, productivity and partially independent functioning. Botha said she hopes the findings of her research study will help broaden educators’ perspectives on digital technology, raise awareness of the benefits and success of digital technology for learners with severe intellectual disabilities, and make technology part of appropriate policies that affect learners with severe intellectual disabilities. Cape Times