PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa always mentions Land Claims and Restitution in his State of the Nation speech every year without fail. Why? Is it to fool the gullible to vote for a failing, dismal, irrelevant ANC? We have heard the same false promises from Mandela to Mbeki to Zuma and the rest in between for 28 long years. So how have land claims gone down with the ANC since 1994? Why does it seem like the only beneficiaries are their voters so far? The coloured community has been fighting epic battles for the right to District Six and the other lands they were kicked out from. Is this ANC punishment for them voting for the DA in the Western Cape which is the only province the ANC cannot get control off. What’s happening in KZN and to the Indian land claimants? They have been kept waiting a record 28 years. In comparison to the National Party which stole our lands, say from 1977 to 1993, why that’s a meagre 16 years. If the ANC rules for the next four years heaven forbid! Then the ANC would be holding on to our “double stolen lands” for double the time, the white racists took our claimed lands away under apartheid. Now the ANC gets away with the Guptas and the trillion rand stolen from our taxpaying monies so stealing Indian claimed lands or holding on to them as if it belongs to them as well is nothing new. If its Indians take it. Bugger the Constitution, ignore the eThekwini Municipality’s “Land Policy”. Clairwood, Cato Manor, Puntans Hill, Inanda, Riet River, Verulam, Red Hill, Durban North are glaringly proof of lands stolen from Indians and developed for African housing. Yes, free land, free housing sponsored by Indian ratepayers and taxpayers. The Indian Land claimants what do they get? They get older. Yes in their 60s, 70s and 80s and the ANC government is waiting for them to die or in frustration accept the peanuts offered as compensation. Or just lose interest and the excuses from the ANC Land Claims Commission, with not a single Indian appointed commissioner in sight since democracy is to say “eThekwini Municipality wants more money for our land. Really? For ANC usurpers who took over Durban City Hall without paying a cent for our claimed lands? Perhaps Patrick Pillay of DLC, Roy Moodley of Mosa, Shamin Rajbansi of MF and the other Indian parties/usurpers who sold our Indian votes to the ANC to give them a majority coalition power can better inform us how they will restore our claimed lands and our dignity that the ANC stole from us like this year. ROBIN NAIDOO | Chairman Indian Land Claimants Association, Phoenix Daily News