DURBAN - South Africa’s apartheid history and Palestine’s current situation have made it onto the streets of London. This is in the form of a poster on the Chalk Farm Station shelter on a road in London. The poster is of the word apartheid, with a description, citing South Africa and usage of the word, citing Amnesty International. The poster describes apartheid as a noun, a “system of oppression and domination by one racial group over another, as imposed by South Africa (1948-1991) and Israel (1948-present)”. It further states an example of its usage as “Amnesty International called for Israel to end its system of apartheid against the Palestinian people.” The poster has been claimed by Protest Stencil, who shared an image of the poster on its Twitter page on February 9, 2022. For many years, Palestinians have been speaking and writing about the apartheid nature of the Israeli state. @amnesty has now become the latest body to come to this same conclusion - that Israel imposes apartheid on the entire Palestinian people. #EndIsraeliApartheid pic.twitter.com/a3aGbf45qi Amnesty International said the poster and its wording were not produced or authorised by Amnesty International. For example, Amnesty did not examine the question of when apartheid against Palestinians began. Therefore, they were not in a position to comment on its creation or use. An Amnesty International spokesperson said: “In 2017, Amnesty released a report which found that the Myanmar government subjects the Rohingya people to a system of apartheid. It is important to note that systems of oppression and domination will never be identical, and our report does not seek to draw comparisons or analogies between the treatment of Palestinians and the Rohingya people.” “Similarly, although the international community began using the term apartheid in response to the political system in South Africa, the conventions and treaties that condemn, prohibit and criminalise apartheid are drafted in a universal manner. Our report does not argue that the system of apartheid enforced by Israel is the same or comparable to the situation in South Africa between 1948 and the mid-1990s. Instead, it analyses Israel’s systematic discrimination against Palestinians against definitions of apartheid in international law.” Daily News