Cape Town - She is making use of her talent to see her granddaughter succeed in life. Jane Hoffman, one of the crocheters at Re.Bag.Re.Use, recently shared how proud she was of her granddaughter Rookshana Davids, who passed matric. Hoffman, who raised Davids, said thanks to the extra money that she is earning with the crocheted shopping bags made from bread bags, she was able to buy data for her granddaughter, so that she would be able to share her CV and apply to nursing colleges. Founder of Re.Bag.Re.Use, Regine le Roux started the project last year after realising just how much plastic was being generated and thrown away every day. When purchasing a Re.Bag.Re.Use bag, not only does it keep plastic from going to the landfill, but also investing into the empowerment of the local community and charities. The sales from the bags are used to pay a stipend to the crocheters, the cutters and a percentage also goes to a local charity. Hoffman said: “I am really proud that she passed matric as this was one of my goals to one day put her through Grade 12 and now she made it. It was very important for her to pass matric and now to further her studies. I want her to become independent and not depend on anyone but herself. I want her to have a career and earn enough money. “The extra money is really a blessing since I can buy bread, milk and even electricity and just have some money for everyday use, really takes some weight off my shoulders The fact that I’m crocheting with plastic makes it more fun to see how an empty plastic bag can be cut into strips and transformed into a bag.” she said. Davids said: “I was raised by my grandmother without the help of my parents. She took me through school all by herself. I’m very thankful for my grandmother for standing with me through all the hard times and I’m thankful for all the sacrifices she made to get me through to matric.” Le Roux said Hoffman is a humble human being. “Jane and all the ladies are a daily inspiration to me. There are three ladies currently helping with cutting and eight ladies who crochet shopping bags from empty bread bags,” she said. For more information, email: rebagreuse@reputationmatters.co.za. Weekend Argus