Mitchells Plain filmmaker Mark Matroos started out with a broken camera, a floodlight and a dream to produce local movies for the big screen. His dream became a reality when Matroos started Mojam Film Productions and his first feature film Meisie van die Lavis  debuted at local cinemas in 2019. Four years later the filmmaker has completed his third movie the sequel to Bloed Betaal  and the trailer will be out March 19.  Matroos, 37, said his ultimate goal was to tell Cape Flats stories with people who experience and live there. He told the Weekend Argus that he had a vision to help those who wanted to venture into film making but did not have the money to do so. “I looked at my own life story. I wanted to study arts but could not because of the financial restraints. “I was working in the music industry and doing odd jobs, when I just decided to step out of my comfort zone and use what I had to shoot Meisie van die Lavis.” Matroos said he started with a broken camera and use a floodlight for a spotlight. He is an all rounder, the director, producer, cameraman, make-up artist and writer. “We held auditions and 20 people came. We released the film at the Portlands Indoor Centre and in Bishop Lavis. The plan was never to go to the cinema.”  The movie got people talking and gained popularity. “In December 2019, we made a DVD, but this still wasn’t enough to satisfy the fans,” he said. Then in 2020 GrandWest screened the movie. When he released Bloed Betaal  he had two movies on circuit at GrandWest. “We sold out theatres for two nights and that’s how I managed to also save towards the next film.” He added Ster Kinekor gave the green light after seeing how popular his movies were. “People want to watch the truth and that is what we giving them. The actors and actresses also understood my vision, it was about giving them a foot in the door, and that’s exactly what it has done for some them.” He said he decided to write a sequel, Bloed Betaal 2 , because he was hooked to making movies. “I knew I couldn't stop there. We had over 200 people auditioning and even had the likes of Wayne Mckay in the auditioning line. We also had art students who needed some exposure. “This was a definite eye-opener that sometimes you need to start at the bottom to reach your goal.” Matroos said it got him excited to see people from all walks of life  come for auditions. “The youngest was five years old, the oldest 75, and they all wanted an opportunity.” And even though movie budgets can range from R800 000 to R1.5million, Matroos continues to follows his dream. “Film schools are now also pitching in, unskilled camera people use the opportunity as a stepping stone, we getting posters sponsored. The community is pitching in with food. “Our next step is being offered a budget, if this is done, then we can successfully say we did it.” An event to meet the actors and view trailer of Bloed Betaal 2 will be held on March 19 at Portlands Indoor Centre at 7:30 pm.