Cape Town - A noise complaint quickly escalated into a R1.3 million drug raid at a Parklands residence Tuesday morning after one of the officers noticed a tablet on the coffee table. According to reports, when the officers were done with the visit about the noise complaint, one of the officers noticed one tablet on the corner of a coffee table and decided to inquire about this tablet. Table View police spokesperson Captain Adriana Chandler said in a statement that the officer knew that the tablet resembled a mandrax tablet, and upon explaining at the request of the officers, the occupant told the officers that the tablet was for one of their pets. "The person providing this explanation also started to behave very nervously, and one of the officers decided to call for assistance from their colleagues because their suspicion that there could be more drugs was intensifying."  As one of the occupants tried to run away from the scene, they were apprehended and brought back to the house.  "As police scattered throughout the residence, various bags with illicit substances were discovered.  A total of 8849 mandrax tablets, 6000 ecstasy tablets, to the approximate street value of R1.3 million,  and cash to the tune of R72000-00 was discovered." "Eight suspects, four of whom are men and four women, aged between 20 and 46 years of age, were arrested and will be charged with dealing in drugs. The case will be investigated by the South African Police Services' Organised Crime Unit. The octet will be appearing in the Cape Town Magistrates' Court once charged, " said Chandler. Table View CPF Chairperson David Harris said that he appreciated how the police were responsive, as the suspects would have carried on if the police had not been quick to notice the narcotics. "The issue of drugs has affected our community severely, and I am glad that the police officers were awake and saw what was happening." "On any good day, the ordeal would have carried on, and the suspects would still be walking around our community, destroying it little by little. My wish is for community members to also be awake. If anything is suspected, speak out to the authorities. Keep them aware of what is happening if you notice anything suspicious. "We cannot keep running around in circles looking for the perpetrators when they could be just next door," said Harris. Weekend Argus