Cape Town - Prisoners at Mangaung Correctional Centre in Bloemfontein  have risked their lives to tell their stories of solitary confinement, knife attacks and abuse. A handful of prisoners contacted the Weekend Argus after reading an article on solitary confinement last week. The South African Human Rights Commission had indicated they would be visiting three prisons where solitary confinement exists. This was after the Judicial Inspectorate For Correctional Services (JICS) drafted a report following inspections at these prisons, which they deemed an infringement of human rights. They visited Ebongweni Super Maximum Correctional Centre, Kgosi Mampuru II C-Max Correctional Centre and Mangaung Public-Private Partnership Correctional Centre last year. The JICS said in their findings that prisoners placed in solitary confinement would spend 22 hours a day without any human contact and one hour of exercise for 15 consecutive days. They deemed this as being harsh and that it could lead to depression and suicide. SAHRC commissioner Chris Nissen said it was a form of torture and was illegal. The prisoners, most of who have been sentenced to life behind bars for crimes such as murder and robbery, said gang fights were rife, leaving those who were not members susceptible to knife attacks, including the wardens. They leaked a photograph of inside the prison, showcasing a cage where wardens would escape knife attacks from violent gang members. One prisoner, aged 35, who is serving 20 years behind bars, said he had been placed in solitary confinement for 30 days. They were left inside a room that had a makeshift bath and non-electrical appliances. “I was taken to solitary confinement for a period of 30 days after they found a cellphone in our cell,” he said. “They took me and another prisoner. We only did exercise maybe four times, which would be walking for 30 minutes. In solitary confinement, there is no plug, no radio, only a small desk. A bath which is a 25-litre bottle which they fill with hot water to wipe yourself off. When you have a visit, it is a no-contact visit.” Another prisoner said he was stabbed multiple times on more than one occasion by the same attackers and that his case has never been heard at court. He is currently serving 18 years for robbery. “I have been traumatised by an incident where I was stabbed multiple times by gang members. We reported the threat before it happened and they didn’t do anything  to the officials. I was stabbed by more than six inmates. I was waiting for my case to be heard inside court, and unfortunately, I heard there was no case, only my convictions, and I had to reopen the case. When I reopened the case in 2020, I was stabbed again.” Another prisoner said he was placed inside a single cell when he attempted a hunger strike due to not receiving medical attention. He said is now too afraid to eat in case he will be attacked for speaking out. “My life is in danger due to corruption. I am afraid to eat, and I was arrested for a hunger strike. I was protesting because I wanted to be in the hospital. They took me, and they placed me into a single cell. This is a prison where they do not care for the inmates. They made cages to protect themselves. When gang members stabbed one another, they just watched.” Clinical psychologist Thabang Tlaka said human beings were created for social interaction and that being placed in solitary confinement would only have a negative impact on behaviour and emotions. “Human beings have been made to interact socially. If you are placed in solitary confinement, this person’s reasoning is taken, and they will need to adapt once outside, and often, they begin to scream or talk to themselves. “They can also struggle with human contact thereafter. Then there is reality testing, trying to make sense of what is reality. If a person is a danger to themselves or others, other methods need to be thought of rather than placing them in solitary confinement.” Nissen, who indicated last week that the SAHRC would be visiting the prisons, said they planned to do so next week and that they were disturbed to hear that prisoners were still being kept in confinement. “One can perhaps request to be kept in solitary confinement for mental issues or for safety,” he said. “It should not be seen as a form of punishment, and it must not be used as operational procedures.” Lawrence Venter, Regional Head, Correctional Services, said he could not comment on solitary confinement reports dealt with by JICS and that the discussion was at national level. Weekend Argus