DURBAN – eThekwini Municipality has appealed to the public to ignore messages circulating on social media that the city’s tap water has been contaminated. In a statement on Monday, the city confirmed that its potable water was not contaminated and was safe to drink. “This confirmation comes after a message circulating on social media to the effect that tap water is contaminated. The public should note that this misleading message is faceless, which proves that the author’s intention is to create unnecessary panic to the public,” said the municipality. The city said eThekwini water was tested in accordance with SA National Standard (SANS) 241 to ensure quality. Non-compliances are checked and followed up in line with internal protocols and set procedures, it said. “The municipality is appealing to all its customers to ignore these messages at all times and only heed those coming from the city’s official sources of public information,”said the city. The National Institute For Communicable Diseases (NICD) announced today that there was no evidence that recent cases of typhoid fever, also called enteric fever,  were linked to contaminated municipal water in any part of the country. This includes districts in the Western Cape and North West  where clusters (small localised outbreaks) of typhoid fever have been identified, it said. The NICD said there were numerous social media posts with false information about enteric fever in South Africa that were attracting widespread attention and causing needless concern and panic at the moment. “These posts allege either that there are currently cases of enteric fever in certain towns or provinces caused by contaminated municipal water, or that the bacteria causing enteric fever have been identified in certain municipal water sources,” said the statement. Protect yourself and your family from enteric fever and many other infections by following these important preventive measures issued by the NICD: Hand hygiene. Wash hands with soap and safe water: Food safety practice. Follow the World Health Organization’s five keys to safer food:  Using safe water: THE MERCURY