Durban: Residents in Riverside Park, a suburb in Umzimto, said while they were protesting on Monday, a private security company based in Port Shepstone, opened fire on them.  They alleged a group of men with rifles and camouflage clothing arrived in the CBD in a Land Cruiser.  Shaun Mcente, 42, and Gracie Vanner, 58, were shot with live ammunition, while a 15-year-old was shot with a rubber bullet. POST witnessed the protesters demand the police arrest the gunmen.  They were told to report the matter to Umzinto SAPS.   The protesters, in turn, threw rocks and bottles at the police, but they dispersed when the police allegedly threatened to fire rubber bullets. Moodley thereafter opened a case of attempted murder at the police station. “We believed that when the attempted looting occurred in the CBD, the private security company was called in as backup. The families of the injured are demanding justice. Penny Mcente said she was with her husband and nephew when the men arrived. “They arrived with guns like AK47s. Shots were fired, and I remember Shaun telling us to run. Then I heard someone say Shaun had been shot. I saw my husband hiding behind a board, but the shooter continued to fire at him. Shaun managed to escape by jumping into the river. He was shot in the thigh, but he somehow managed to walk to find help.” She said her husband was taken to a clinic where he was treated until he was transferred to the hospital. “The bullet is still lodged in his leg. He will need to undergo an operation for it to be removed.” Penny said they joined the protest as they wanted the municipality to understand their plight. “But some people used this as an opportunity to shoot us.” Gracie Vanner was shot in the hand. “I wanted to hear what the mayor was saying when he received the memorandum. While walking towards him and others, these men drove toward us and fired. My son and I jumped into the river to hide, but I was shot in the hand.” She was also taken to the clinic for treatment and then sent home. “I am so traumatised. I am in a lot of pain and cannot move my hand. Nobody in this community provoked those men. They were trigger happy. They continued to shoot even as people were running away. Nobody here tried to loot anything.” Kevin Pillay said his son was shot in the arm. “He was with me during the protest. Then these men drove into the area and fired. They used live ammunition and rubber bullets. We got separated in the chaos. I eventually found him with some children. He was in pain, and his arm was swollen.” Pillay said his son did not go to school because there was no water at home or at the school. The owner of the security company could not be reached for comment.  Lieutenant Colonel Noqbile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said Umzinto police was investigating a case of attempted murder. The Post