Cape Town - The family of a missing father of two received new hope after spotting him on a TV news report.  For nearly three years Ashley Swart has been missing without a trace, until 2020 when his family spotted him on the news.  His family admitted that he was addicted to drugs and was facing a charge of theft after being arrested for a break-in at a local school in Atlantis. Swart was last seen on May 31, 2019, and was reported missing in July 2019. Swart had left home to visit a female friend in Table View and had often slept out weekends. Family at first believed Swart had continued his stay in Table View or that he might have been arrested. Relatives questioned the person who last saw him and also searched morgues, hospitals, police stations and prisons. Swart’s father, Jan Swart, who reported him missing, said they were devastated and confused at the same time after seeing him on a news report in 2020. Swart is seen walking around a street corner. The footage was apparently filmed in Saldanha Bay where the family had also searched. “He was a drug user and the last time we saw him, he was visiting a female friend in Table View but he had made plans to build a wendy house in Mitchells Plain where his cousin lives but he never made it there. A week passed and we thought perhaps he is gone due to the court case he has. He was arrested after he apparently broke into a classroom at a school and was charged and arrested. We then began searching prisons thinking perhaps he was locked up for that case. We also asked the person who saw him last and they indicated they did not know anything.” We also asked at police stations such as Table View where they claimed they took him into custody and then taken to Atlantis police station but there was no record of this.” Jan said his family had new hope after seeing their son on television.  “It was during the lockdown in 2020 and we were watching the news when we saw our son walking in the street. “We found out that the footage was taken in Saldanha but this also ended up nowhere. My wife is devastated, we are worried about our son, it is nearly three years and no one can tell us anything.” The family turned to Track n Trace to help and the organisation’s Chaz Thomas said they have not yet found anyone fitting his description.  She said a team would be gathering soon on a search for Swart. Police spokesperson Colonel Andre Traut said the search continued for Swart and the matter was being investigated by Atlantis police.  * If you have seen Swart please contact his father, Jan Swart on 083 577 0482 or Thomas of Track n Trace on 083 345 9122. Weekend Argus