CAPE TOWN - The Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata) says it will meet to “try to get a sense of what is going on and why” after a man, believed to be one of their members, was shot and killed in Langa on Tuesday. “We are shocked as the organisation, to hear that there has been a shooting where one operator was killed,” Cata secretary Mandla Hermanus said. “We don't know what is going on there but it seems there is a problem with the association in Langa. “The executive committee of Cata is currently out of town, we are at a conference but we are coming back this evening. “We will try to get to the bottom of what is going on but we condemn the killing in the strongest possible terms and we call on law enforcement to do everything in their power to track down and arrest perpetrators of the violence,” he said. Police spokesperson Wesley Twigg said the suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. “The circumstances surrounding a shooting at about 07:30am at a taxi rank in Langa, where a 35-year-old male was shot and fatally wounded, are under investigation. A murder case was opened for investigation. Langa police were called to the scene where they found the victim with a gunshot wound to the head,” said Twigg. The SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) said it was dismayed by the killing. “Santaco condemns any violence in the taxi industry. We ask the community to assist the police with apprehending the persons responsible for the heinous crime,” they said. Transport MEC Daylin Mitchell's spokesperson Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka said the department would work with Saps Crime Intelligence and Social Security Administration (SSA) to monitor brewing conflicts within and between associations. This while a commuter said the taxi industry should tighten up its security for the safety of its passengers. “I was on the phone when I heard about two or three gunshots. I was so shocked that I fell and almost lost my phone. After the incident, I immediately called one of my friends to pick me up at my place. I thought the shooting at the taxi ranks was over, I don't think I will ever take a taxi again to work or anywhere.” Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop at 086 0010 111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. Cape Times