A CAMPAIGN to fight for access to new technology for people with insulin dependent diabetes is gaining momentum in South Africa. The South African Diabetes Advocacy, an alliance of all the organisations for people with diabetes in the country, will lodge an appeal this week with the Council for Medical Schemes (CMS) to make flash glucose monitors a Prescribed Minimum Benefit (PMB) for all people with Type 1 diabetes, both in state and private care. The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) estimated that more than 4.5 million adults in South Africa were living with diabetes. The advocacy group said people living with Type 1 diabetes were largely ignored in the country, and they walked a tightrope between low blood glucose that could result in an emergency, and high blood glucose that could result in long-term complications. Over the past decade there's been advancement in the development of new technology which could help those with Type 1 diabetes manage it better. “The constant attempts to balance blood sugar with insulin, exercise, hormones, stress, sleep and daily life can sometimes feel impossible. There is something that makes it significantly easier, though - sensor technology," said Bridget McNulty, a member of the Sweet Life Diabetes Community. Flash glucose monitors are the standard of care in many countries, including the UK and New Zealand. "However, South Africa is still stuck on fingersticks. Type 1 diabetic people have to inject insulin every time they eat. To test their blood sugar they have to use needles to draw blood and this can be done up to five times a day. From those fingersticks one has to decide how much insulin to take and how to exercise,"  said McNulty. The flash glucose monitoring device is the size of a R5 coin and is worn on the upper arm. It measures blood sugar levels every five minutes and sends the readings to a receiver or a smartphone, and can also provide real-time information. McNulty said none of the medical aid schemes fully covering the device. One medical aid scheme offered some money towards it, but did not cover it in full because it's not a prescribed minimum benefit. Matthew Gair, a parent of a four-year-old boy living with Type 1 diabetes described the  sensor technology as life-changing. "Having a sensor on his arm means that my wife and I don't have to finger prick him every 30 minutes as we would with fingersticks. We can also see the data now and be prepared. "It allows my wife and I to track his blood glucose when we aren't with him, as the sensor is tied to three phones in the family which means we can help anyone who is caring for him without having to be hovering around him all day. My son has had diabetes for one and a half years now, and has been sick three or four times in that time. The sensors have meant we could keep him out of hospital twice as we could monitor him  closely and relay that information to his doctors so that they felt confident enough to let him sleep in his own bed. "The technology is life-changing. Diabetes is a terrible disease, but we feel lucky that we live in a time and are fortunate enough to buy the sensor for him every month," said Gair. However, the sensor is pricey and costs R990 each. In a month, Type 1 diabetic needed two sensors. But the difference it has made in the lives of people with Type 1 is unbelievable said Gair. "We buy two a month and the medical aid covers half of the cost. But we have to submit information every three months for them to keep providing the service. I think if we can make it a PMB and make it available to everyone for free it would keep a lot of people out of hospital and save lives. The medical aids would also benefit from lower hospital bills in the long run," added Gair. Earl Prinsloo has been living with Type 1 diabetes for 10 years. "I am on a short-acting insulin which I take when I have my meals and on long-acting insulin as well, which lasts for 24 hours and keep blood sugar stable, especially during the night. "Because I am on insulin I have to monitor myself and do the finger stick eight to 10 times a day. If I have extra budget I buy the Freestyle Libre sensor and it lasts for 14 days. My medical aid only funds it from the R6 000 it has allocated to my savings portion benefit which also takes care of my doctor visits and medication for flu, for instance. "The medical aid does not prescribe the sensor as part of the chronic medication," said Prinsloo. McNulty said manufacturers had been approached with the aim of bringing the cost of the sensors down. In turn, the manufacturers would have to hold discussions with the government. "This has been done in England with the National Health Service (NHS). They have found a way to make it possible," added McNulty. A South African mother of a 13-year-old Type 1 diabetic son who lives in England, said a starter pack of the Freestyle Libre cost R3 000. The pack consists of a reader plus two 14 day sensors.  “But he gets it for free as part of NHS. It’s regarded as chronic medication,” she said.  The Council for Medical Schemes said it "had deliberated extensively" through its Clinical Review Committee on the requests for the funding of the technology as PMB. The council’s position is that it is not a PMB level of care following affordability studies, and lack of proven improved health outcomes specific to the South African healthcare environment," said  Mmatsie Mpshane, in a statement. She said there were instances where applications for the sensor funding might be considered a PMB, but this was on a case-by-case basis. Mpshane said this would also depend on motivation by the treating healthcare provider, for example, in children that required continuous non-invasive monitoring of blood glucose with frequent episodes of hypoglycaemia owing to demonstrable difficult glycaemic control. The appeal to the Council of Medical Schemes would be supported by the patient and doctor testimonials and clinical evidence.