Cape Town - The grandmother of the matriculant who was stabbed to death last week said she forgives his killers. Hlumisa Xaki, 17, was allegedly attacked by two boys while waiting for a school bus in Sir Lowry’s Pass. The two boys, aged 18 and 14, were arrested by the police following the fatal stabbing. “I want their mothers when passing me not to feel sorry for me or act in a different way,” said Gene Xaki, 64. “I have forgiven them. Nothing I do or say will bring back my son. I call him my son because I raised him. They must greet when they see me. I hold no grudge against them.” Sir Lowry’s Pass has two groups of youth gangsters called the Horribles and Mobsters. The groups are divided by the main road and fight based on territories. The groups are made of high school pupils and other school-going age children who no longer attend school. There are reports of adults also being part of the groups. No one knows why there are fights between the gangs. Locals say the fights have taken many lives of young people in the area. When the Weekend Argus approached the groups to find out what is it that they are fight for, none of them could say, but they said the fight is far from over. “Hlumi had an encounter with one of the kids when he went to cut his hair. He said they told him they did not like the way he looked at them. I am not mad at anyone. I leave it all to God.” She said Hlumi was a quiet boy. Xaki showed the Weekend Argus pictures of five young boys who she said also died after being stabbed. Two of the boys were her neighbours.  “I always thought I understood the pain the parents of these boys felt when they experienced death. I did not know, but now I feel it.” Hlumi’s uncle, Ivan, blamed the lack of police visibility for the rising stabbings. Sir Lowry’s Pass has a satellite police station. The station was robbed in October last year. Three men made off with firearms, cellphones and a laptop. “There is never a van available when going to the police station. Even with ambulances, people wait hours before it arrives.” Community activist Ellen Myburgh said the lack of recreational centres and activities drive young people to join gangs. “There is no high school here, and there is nothing to do for most young people. We have been highlighting the challenges faced by this community, but all this falls on deaf ears.” The two boys who were arrested are expected to appear in court on March 10 for a formal bail hearing. Hlumi will be buried today. Weekend Argus