Cape Town - A former soccer player from Bishop Lavis is continuing to fly the South African flag in Europe after landing yet another coaching job in Finland.  Leroy Maluka has been appointed the assistant coach of Espoon Palloseuran Jalkapallo ry (EPS), one of the biggest clubs in Finland. He is also a fitness coach for the first team and under 13s. No other South African has been in the club. The father of three daughters could not hide his excitement about his new role. “I am very excited and happy to be here,” said the 37-year-old. “It’s a great organisation to be a part of. I am looking forward to developing players and helping them achieve their goals.” Maluka was previously with Football Club International Turku, commonly known as Inter Turku, in Veikkausliiga (Finnish Premier League). “I got offered a new deal at my previous club but unfortunately we could not agree on terms and conditions. I then decided to walk away knowing my value.” “I then received a call from one of the biggest football clubs EPS who offered me the position Head of Fitness (u/13 - First Team) and First Team Assistant Coach.” Maluka’s journey began with a visit to his brother about 12 years ago. His brother is well-known painter Mustafa Maluka known for theatrically confronting the intersection of contemporary critical theory and global politics with his provocative large-scale portraits. Maluka was playing for Ikapa Sporting at the time and gone to Finland for a holiday. To keep fit, he asked to train with Åbo IFK, who were impressed with his skills and offered him a contract. Within six months, he joined top Finnish side Turun Palloseura, where he played for two seasons before returning to Åbo IFK. The former midfielder has won numerous awards in his decade-long career in Finland. He now holds a UEFA B coaching licence and a diploma in fitness and exercise. “In my new role, I am working with a much broader age group, being in charge from u/13 all the way up to the first team. I’m also working with different teams whereas before I worked more with individual elite players. He said he was looking forward to implementing his methodology and knowledge to help the club prosper even more. Speaking of the possibility of returning home one day, Maluka said that door is not closed.  “Definitely. If the right opportunity presents itself, there is no doubt that I would consider coming back to South Africa. I believe that my experience and knowledge gained in Europe would add value to any club.” He said he misses Cape Town, especially his family, friends, beautiful scenery and even the culture sometimes. Weekend Argus