The University of Cape Town (UCT) was rocked by protests on Wednesday day after allegations of rape and sexual harassment were made against a student leader. The protest was also in support of students who were in debt and were unable to register for the academic year. The action held at several locations across the campus caused disruptions to the student registration process and some vehicles including the university Shuttle buses could not enter the campus. University spokesperson  Nombuso Shabalala said the Special Tribunal for Gender -Based Violence (GBV) was investigating the sexual harassment and rape allegations. "We maintain a survivor-centred approach whilst ensuring that a fair and due process is concluded as swiftly as possible. Any student or staff member who has experienced sexual assault or GBV is encouraged to contact the Office for Inclusivity and Change (OIC) Regarding the student debt, the university said it was engaged with the Students Representative Council (SRC) in seeking ways to handle the matter. The university management and the SRC held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the matters. However, Shabalala said no decisions were immediately communicated by the leaders. In a statement issued on February 1, the SRC said it resolved to open a case against the two student leaders with the student governance court and requested that they be relieved of their duties pending investigations and ultimately for their suspension. According to the statement the rape allegations made by a first year student surfaced on Tuesday. The allegations also implicated persons allegedly enabling the sexual assault. "Sexual assault or violence at its core is and remains a grave sickening and devastating abuse of power. The culture and attitudes which allow sexual assault to proliferate ought to be condemned," said the statement. The SRC also urged on other rape and sexual assault survivors who might be emotionally traumatised by the current alleged rape event to seek seek the necessary care and counselling. "We stand with students and support plans to allocate resources," the statement said.