The Higher Education and Training Department says it no longer faces a R10 billion student funding shortfall for the current academic year. This follows concerns raised by the SA Union of Students (SAUS), which has called on National Treasury to cover the projected R10bn shortfall for funding of poor students. Higher Education Department spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi said the shortfall was no longer an issue as it had been covered “through state resources”. The  National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) announced that it had received over 906 429 applications for funding this year. Earlier, SAUS president Yandisa Ndzoyiya appealed to National Treasury to reverse the "regressive, anti-poor and anti-working class posture" and meet the shortfall. The 2022 budget for NSFAS was expected to be announced after the Budget Speech later this month. National Treasury said Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana would announce proposed allocations for the government in his February 23. Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande gave a commitment earlier this week to fund all qualifying students admitted for funded programmes at technical vocational and educational training (TVET) colleges and universities. NSFAS said it had released a funding list of eligible students to the institutions. SAUS also urged NSFAS to speed up the appeals process. "We've noted and are annoyed by the delay of the appeals process. The appeals must be concluded well within the registration period so as to not exclude the students who’ve appealed." SAUS also made an appeal for the extension of the registration periods at institutions, "in line with the finalisation of the challenges". The Democratic Alliance (DA) has also called on Nzimande to give details on how the funding shortfall was covered. The party also called for funding guidelines to be made public as soon as possible, to ensure scrutiny and accountability. DA MP Chantel King said: "We need these guidelines to be announced urgently so we can ensure that they were applied fairly and did not disadvantage some students. The time for consultation is over." King said it was also crucial that a future funding model, which would address funding for the "missing middle" students, was established as soon as possible, as the current "fee education" one was unsustainable. "In 2021, student funding faced a R6.8 billion shortfall, which was settled through allocations to TVET infrastructure, national skills and grants to universities, as National Treasury would not give the department extra funding," said King. Mnisi said a ministerial task team set up by Nzimande to look into future funding models had submitted its first report to Cabinet, and “further consultations” were underway.