In the Hand-Up mentorship programme, 10 industry experts had the opportunity to mentor 100 bartenders across Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban. The nine-month programme is worth more than R450 000. Cape Town bartender Sabrina Traubner is one of the experts mentoring 100 previously disadvantaged bar staff and upskilling them from entry-level positions. Traubner said the programme was revolutionary for the industry as trainees were receiving an exceptional calibre of training for free. “Every month we have a session talking about topics like sustainability, classic cocktails and the bartender fundamentals,” she said. She added: “People don’t understand just how detailed being a good bartender is. The new generation of bartenders must understand they need to put in the time to learn and grow.” The 24-year-old bartender has worked in the hospitality industry for the past five years. She started working in cocktail bars before she became the head instructor at the European Bartender School in Cape Town. Traubner said she counts this as her greatest professional achievement. “I teach bartenders how to pour, flair and different drink-making techniques, as well as theory, in a four-week course which attracts people from around the world.” Traubner advised novice bartenders to pay attention and be humble. “Always be open to listening, if you make mistakes, be accountable and learn from them, and never be afraid to ask for help.” Graphic designer turned bartender Leighton Rathbone is another expert partaking in the programme. The 29-year-old started working as a bartender as a side hustle to pay for his studies while at university. He loved the profession so much that he continued even after graduating. “I realised I was making more money and having more fun behind a bar than with graphic design,” he said. Rathbone works as the beverage manager at the Gorgeous George Hotel. He said he enjoyed being able to give people opportunities to do a job that they love through the mentorship programme. “The training helps you see bartending as a career and not as a temporary job – the material is educational and even I am learning new things,” he said. He added: “I wish there was something like this when I was starting as it really fast-tracks one.”