SELF-confessed occult member Daniel Smit, accused of killing and mutilating the body of Jerobejin van Wyk, 13, for stealing mangoes fell to his knees and begged for forgiveness says a spiritual leader who met with the former Klawer train driver.  Since meeting with the Pastor Jan Oosthuizen Smit has been admitted to a hospital. A source close to the investigation said Smit started experiencing problems with his kidneys last week. Smit had gone on a hunger strike while in prison. “It is still unclear why he was on the hunger strike.” A DNA test confirmed that the human remains found in Smit’s sewer pipes was that of the 13-year old. Although Smit’s lawyer, Santie Human, revealed that Smit’s actions was due to past occult links and not a hate crime, he is yet to make a formal confession.  Smit apparently used to belonged to an occult group which no longer exists.  Smit told the media he was allegedly driven to kill Jerobejin by evil spirits after the boy stole mangoes from a tree hanging in his yard. Oosthuizen offered  Smit spiritual guidance. But was adamant that he was not an exorcist. The pastor has since met up with Smit  whom he said was very accepting of his transgressions. “I saw him a week and a half ago, and what I can say is that he is accepting full responsibility for what he did. He just wants everything to be dealt with already, as quickly as possible.” Oosthuizen said during the meeting he learnt that Smit more likely feared for his punishment in the after life. “Of course as a pastor, I am uneasy at meeting a person who (is accused) of committed such an atrocious (crime). “Daniel appears to be in his right mind, coherent, calm and willing to cooperate. He takes full responsibility in his words: ’I’m guilty before God and man’”. “He knows what he can expect in the earthly realm but needed deliverance spiritually. “I also learnt that he does not belong to an occult or satanic group anymore. “For years he's been searching for a religious home, at the moment he is with the messianic group, he says he has been seeking for a deeper meaning and answers.” When their meeting ended Oosthuizen said Smit fell to his knees and wept. “He kept asking for forgiveness, he also kept apologising, he wanted me to convey the message, even though he knows his apology won't likely be accepted. “He showed willingness to participate in any restorative justice processes that will lessen the pain of the van Wyk family.” Another source revealed to Weekend Argus that Smit agreed that he would do anything for the wellbeing of his own family  which included selling his house where the killing took place. “As far as I know, he has given up his job as a train driver and last week pictures of furniture being carried out of his house was shared on social media. “It could be for his legal cost, it can also be that he is helping his kids financially or it could be that his antiques needed to be safely stored away.” Smit is expected to appear in court on  April 26.  Jerobejin’s funeral is on Saturday.