Newly-weds David and Joan Clarke were caught off guard when Cupid shot his arrow and they found love in their eighties. The couple shared the story of their love with the Weekend Argus as they sat on a bench and enjoyed the roses at the picturesque Chart Farm in Wynberg. A sign reads: “R7 per stem (pick your own), R8 per stem ready picked.” Joan, 87, tugs at her 84-year-old husband’s sleeve and jokingly asks: “How much will it cost for me to get a dozen roses?” The Clarkes tied the knot in December after getting to know one another for just over a year. She said: “When you’re in love you do funny things. We decided to get married. He was alone and I was alone and we felt that we wanted to be married to each other.” David recalls having read the creation story in Genesis chapter two of the Bible and having an epiphany about getting married. “I finished reading verse 18 where it said that God saw it wasn’t good for man to be alone. I stopped there and never gave it a second thought,” he said. They met last year through David’s deceased sister, Margaret, with whom Joan had been friends for many years. On one occasion, Joan needed a lift to visit Margaret, and David volunteered. “I think that’s where it actually started and that is where we got to know one another more intimately,” he said. Joan grew up in Green Point, where she worked as a designer and dressmaker for a retailer while she was married to her first husband, John Baadjes. They had eight children, five girls and three boys, and she eventually left her job to become a housewife. “I took care of my family and made wedding frocks for many brides in my time while staying at home,” she said. Her first husband died 12 years ago and she lived with her children after his death. David grew up in Simon’s Town and worked in the dockyard from 1955, when he left school, up until his retirement. He was married to his first wife, Susan, with whom he had three children, from 1963 until her death in 2019.  When asked what their favourite thing is about each other, they stared into each other’s eyes and shared a glance while smiling.  “He opens the car door and makes sure my skirt is inside the door before he closed,” she said.  “He’s a gentleman, and always has been very caring. I love that because it was so new for me to have someone who cared for me.”   David said he appreciated that Joan was a loving, caring and generous soul.  The couple expressed their gratitude for being able to celebrate love at their age.   The couple shared advice for any person who thinks they might never find love.  “The more you give love, the more you get love,” David said.  Joan added: “Just be yourself. What you give is what you’ll get.”   The team at the Chart Farm in Wynberg gave the couple a dozen roses to celebrate their love.  Joan’s eyes filled up with tears and she tugged on her husband’s sleeves as she tried containing her excitement.   “I am always thrilled to see the impact our story has on people,” David said.