DURBAN - A former Grade 10 pupil from Folweni, south of Durban, had never imagined that at the age of 20 he would be dependent on his mother – this after Mhlengi Dlamini’s right hand was recently amputated. He had his hand amputated at Albertina Sisulu Hospital because it had started to rot with his nails growing out of his palm. He alleged that a teacher had told him to make a fist before hitting him; ever since he has been unable to open or use the hand. The incident had also seen Dlamini drop out of school. In 2019, Dlamini, then 17, was hit by his former teacher on his knuckles three times with the corner of a chalkboard duster. “There is nothing that I can do for myself, including bathing properly. I depend on my mother for everything. “This has been the most painful experience of my entire life. My dream to help my family when I grew up was taken away from me,” said Dlamini. In 2019, Dlamini was a Grade 10 pupil at Isolembamba Secondary School, previously known as Sibongindlela High School, with aspirations to become a pilot. But, he said, his dreams were shattered after the incident. “What I have endured for the past three years, seeing my mother spending the little money she had going to hospitals with the hope that I would get better only to find that it would get worse. Here I am unable to secure employment. I feel useless.” “We had opened a case at the Folweni police station. But when some local politicians tried to follow up they told us no case was opened,” said Dlamini’s mother Babhekile Mchunu, 39. “I had lost the case number which made it more difficult to prove it. I found it odd because I had met in person with the constable in charge.” “While we were trying to deal with that the father of my child received a call from some inspector, I can’t mention, to speak about this matter. He went and things were promising. “Three weeks later he was shot and killed. Just like that I was left with our son’s financial burden and no support.” Mchunu believed the death of Dlamini’s father was linked to them following up on their son’s incident. Dlamini and his mother had since fled their Folweni home and gone into hiding fearing for their lives. “We are now living in a shack.” “I sent my child to school to get an education but on that day he came back with no hand nor education. “The department has been aware of the incident but has not even once reached out to us while my son was injured on their premises where he was to be kept safe.” Mchunu wished her son would continue with his studies, but it would be impossible as she was unemployed. The SGB-paid teacher was dismissed following the incident. Daily News