CAPE TOWN - So far, 240 pigs have died as a result of the African Swine Fever (ASF) outbreak in the Southern Cape. Earlier this month, Agriculture MEC Ivan Meyer announced the outbreak of African Swine Fever (ASF) in the Southern Cape, one in KwaNonqaba, Mossel Bay and the other in Thembalethu, George. “Since then, Western Cape Department of Agriculture (WCDoA) veterinary officials, who have been working tirelessly to assist the affected smallholder farmers and prevent the further spread of the disease, estimate that about 240 pigs have died as a result of ASF in these areas,” Meyer said. Both areas have been placed under quarantine, which means that pigs or pig products may not be moved out of these areas without a permit issued by the local state veterinary office and that carcasses need to be disposed of responsibly. Local municipalities have provided burial sites and disinfectants. “There is no effective vaccine available to prevent ASF. For this reason, I appeal to farmers to continue to implement effective bio-security measures. This entails keeping pigs confined to avoid contact with other pigs and humans sanitising their hands, shoes, clothing and equipment before and after contact with pigs or pig products. In addition, if any meat products are fed to pigs, they must be thoroughly cooked to inactivate the virus,” Meyer said. He added that they were grateful to the Mossel Bay local municipality and their Incident Working Group for the assistance with disinfection and the disposal of carcasses. Mossel Bay SPCA has also played a critical role through their daily checks to ensure that dying pigs are euthanised humanely. “Officials from the Western Cape Department of Agriculture’s State Veterinary Services and the Agricultural Producers’ Support and Development Programmes will host farmer information days over the next three days. Officials will be joined by the South African Pork Producers’ Organisation. The aim is to provide information and create awareness on ASF, biosecurity, and general pig farming questions,” Meyer said. The first information day was hosted in Mossel Bay on Monday, with upcoming sessions planned for Thembalethu, George, on Tuesday, and Kwanokuthula, Plettenberg Bay on Wednesday. For more information, contact Dr Gininda Msiza on 0846046705,  email: ginindaM@elsenburg.com or State Veterinarian in George, Dr Leana Janse van Rensburg  on (044) 803 3771/083 797 0010, Email: LeanaJvR@elsenburg.com Cape Times