Countries around the world are enticing young South Africans with irresistible offers in exchange for their labour, and South Africans are taking the offer. The most recent announcement by Australia to offer financial incentives in the form of visa refunds to young international workers has garnered much interest.  In efforts to revive their national economy, young people are being lured to Australia on working holiday visas that the Australian government is offering to refund. The same offer applies to student visas. Additionally, they will be permitted to work more than 40 hours per week due to skills shortages. As recorded by Home Affairs, at the end of June 2019, 193 860 South Africans were living in Australia. This total is 28.6% more than it was 10 years before, in June 2009. Germany attracts young adults under the age of 27 through its voluntary social year programme. Jetaime Gallant, 26, moved to Germany in September and now works as a kindergarten teacher because the programme offers accommodation, meals and reimbursement of travel costs.  Gallant said she was grateful for the benefits she’s received from the programme because it has made travelling cheaper and easier. “I have my medical aid covered and my insurance is covered at no cost to me. In this country, medical aid and insurance are compulsory and I am most grateful for this,” she said. She added: “To me, my safety is the biggest benefit. My main form of commute is walking, cycling and here I feel safe as a woman. The young kindergarten teacher said she doesn’t think the country used its perks to lure people in, but that it was a way of life.  “It’s the way it is and this is what you experience if you live here. The difference is that this is a First World country.” Jodie Johnson is assistant manager at a company that expedites paperwork needed to leave the country. Johnson moved to Dubai from 2016 to 2019 to work in the hospitality industry and experienced an array of benefits.  “My salary was tax-free when I lived there. I was provided with accommodation by the company that I worked for,” she said. She added: “We received two meals while on duty, depending on which shift you worked. The country also had ladies night where we would get free alcohol between certain hours.”  “The country was super safe. In my time there, I never had to live in fear.” Johnson said career growth was at the genesis of her decision to relocate. “I wanted to earn a better salary once I came home, and a better job based on my international experience.” Johnson said she believed that Dubai uses its benefits to attract people into the country. “Countries like South Africa don’t provide any of the benefits I received, so an increased standard of living becomes irresistible.” Professor and head of statistics and population studies department at UWC, Nancy Stiegler, said a decision to emigrate was based on two issues. “Security and the economy push people to emigrate. Security includes wars, political instability, lack of freedom and environmental issues. Economy means lack of jobs and poverty,” she said. She added: “Those who are emigrating are either those without qualifications to take up low skilled jobs in some countries lacking manual labour or on the contrary those with high qualifications who find better jobs and financial opportunities in Europe and Australasia for instance.” Stiegler said immigration benefits the host country in most instances.  “It does benefit the person who migrates if indeed the job and financial opportunities meet the expectations,” she said.  She added: “Even for a low skilled job, the person who works abroad manages to earn more money and send back some remittances to their families in the original countries.”  “Economically speaking it can be worth it indeed, but of course, on the human side that means that the migrant can be far from family, friends and culture, and this is hard to quantify in terms of whether it is worth it or not.”