Cape Town - In an effort to assist children in disadvantaged communities with school essentials, the Hands of Love organised a school bag donation drive to kick-start their school year on a high note. Hands of Love founded in 2021 by Catherine Versfeld, aims to help schoolchildren in poverty-stricken communities with bags, stationery and school essentials so that they go to school feeling self-confident. “Kids these days have a lot of books, and they have to transport them to and from school every now and then, and even the lowest of grades go through this. In learning that a lot of children walk kilometres to school with their books in plastic bags, we got to understand that this affects their self-esteem as they get teased and bullied a lot for not having the basics that we take for granted. “This plays on their emotions and self-esteem, and at Hands of Love, we honestly just want them to feel good about going to school. We want them to know that because this issue matters to them, it matters to us too," said Versfeld. Working with the AMAL Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre on the drive, Versfeld added that Hands of Love aimed to contribute, even in the smallest of ways, to the future of the children. Shanaaz Scholtz from AMAL Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre said that the children were delighted to receive the brand new bags and stationary packs, which helped to reduce the load on parents for back to school items. “Getting sponsorship for stationery is extremely difficult. This is my second annual stationary drive, and I have done it. I had to purchase 75% of the goods out of my pocket. Hands of love made it easier by giving a bag to the pupils, which was also much needed.” “The children were over the moon to see these brand new bags and also the stationary packs that gave them brand new shoes. It definitely made the load much lighter for their parents," said Scholtz.  Versfeld said the response was so positive that that she wanted to do more to help young people learn. “We are going to be doing drives every quarter, similar to our bag drive, and we would love it if everyone would participate and give in the small ways that they are able. We have tried our best to set up the drives in such a way that it makes it easy for people to participate in changing our beautiful country." “Our drive for the rest of the year will be Read 2 Succeed, happening in March. For this drive, we will have drop-off points once again for members of the public to donate books. Our aim is to help set up libraries and reading centres in poorer communities and schools. “Given that the world has become more technological, we would love to venture into donations of old laptops, iPads, etc. because, unfortunately, poorer children and under-resourced schools are being left behind and will be at a major disadvantage this year if we all don't step in,” said Versfeld. Weekend Argus