DURBAN - The Umbilo Task team arrested two suspects wanted for a robbery that took place a year ago on February 25, 2021. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the police officers from the task team had on Tuesday received information about a vehicle that was sought in an investigation they were conducting. “According to their investigation the vehicle was seen at St. Georges Street in Durban Central. The police officers proceeded to the identified location and intercepted the vehicle. There were two men in the vehicle who were positively identified as the wanted suspects who were involved in a robbery that took place at Ferguson Road in Glenwood on February 25, 2021. “The two suspects, aged 23 and 27, were arrested and the vehicle was impounded for further investigation. It was later discovered that the vehicle seized by police was used in the commission of another crime in the Berea area during January 2021. Both suspects will be profiled to see if they are positively linked to other cases reported in Umbilo and surrounding areas. The suspects are expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court soon,” she said. Mbele said that on February 25, 2021, at 11.45am, the complainant was delivering goods in Umbilo when he was accosted by the suspects. At knifepoint, they robbed him of clothes, takkies and other belongings before they fled the scene in their getaway vehicle. Reacting to the arrests, Umbilo community policing forum (CPF) chairperson Heather Roos said the task team was following up on the business robbery that occurred on Tuesday night at One Stop SuperMarket in Umbilo, where a white Toyota Etios was used. Roos said the white Toyota Etios the suspects were driving was taken in a carjacking in Berea. “The two were detained as suspects in the above cases as well as for Section 36. After interviewing one of the suspects, it was established that he was also wanted for a case of murder,” Roos said. She said investigations were continuing to arrest outstanding suspects. “The suspects will be profiled to establish if they could possibly be linked to other cases in the district,” she said. Roos added that the station management and the executive CPF wished to express their sincere thanks and appreciation to these members for their commitment, dedication and for working tirelessly in bringing these suspects to book within 24 hours. Daily News