Cape Town - Yet another woman was murdered in Langa last night. She was shot dead by unknown gunmen not far from her home in Langa.  According to police spokesperson Sergeant Siyabonga Dyantyi, police were called to the crime scene, where they found the victim lying in the street. “The circumstances surrounding a shooting incident last night at about 21.30 in Intersite Street, Langa, where a 25-year-old female was shot and fatally wounded, are under investigation. The victim was declared deceased on the scene by medical personnel.” He said the suspect/s fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. Over the weekend, a woman's body was found in a canal. Her suspected killer was set alight by the community. Langa was just mourning the death of Abongile Mabusela, who was shot coming from the church towards the end of last month. Just last week, a taxi driver was shot and killed during the morning rush in Langa Taxi rank.  Langa was once said to be one of the safest communities and easy to police due to its size. The recent killings are painting a grim picture of the area. CPF chairperson Alfred Magcwaca said the spate of killings in Langa is shocking.  “It's painful watching Langa, that should be aspiring in good developmental growth, being a safe haven as known to be a small community (becoming like this). It brings us to look at ourselves, and what is it that we, as Langa, are doing wrong? Where do these characters come from? What comes to mind when someone sees life as valueless and easily takes it?” He said the CPF would have an urgent meeting this evening to plan an engagement with the community to highlight all the challenges that the community is facing. “We will be calling on the Langa community to stand in solidarity with all affected families, friends, colleagues. To say let's be whistle-blowers when we witness such for everyone to be and feel safe in our beloved community.” Meanwhile, Kraaifontein police are investigating a double murder case after a shooting incident in Henzekile Street, Bloekombos, where two women were shot and fatally wounded on Sunday night. The suspect/s are yet to be arrested. Police say the motive was attempted house robbery. Anyone with information about the shootings incident can contact Crime Stop on 0860 010 111. Weekend Argus