The family of Gafsa Adams, 61, hope that three new laws focused on gender-based violence will turn the tide on pandemic-related violence against women and children.  In 2015, Adams’s body was found dumped in a bin outside her Tafelsig home. Her son, Shakoor Roberts, went on trial for her murder and was acquitted last year. During the six-year-long trial, witnesses told the court that Adams had taken out a protection order months before her death. However, incorrect dates indicated on the order resulted in it being dismissed as evidence. Adams’s cousin, Jamia Daniels, said the new laws reopened old wounds but also gave her hope that other families would not suffer the same fate as theirs. “If this had happened earlier, we would have had more of a leg to stand on, and Gafsa would have got justice,” she said. “During the case, when the interdict was deemed unreliable, we felt we were on our own because my cousin followed the correct procedures, but the system still failed her. So let’s hope this (the new legislation) changes the narrative.” Just days after the acquittal, Gafsa’s daughter, Rushaana Adams, wrote a letter to President Ramaphosa and Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald Lamola. The letter read: “It is with disgust and disappointment that I am writing to you about the gruesome injustice of my mother being murdered at the hands of her own son… A lack of evidence (and bungling on the part of lawyers) allowed the perpetrator to walk over the graves of every woman and child that died due (to) GBV.“ Henry Arends, spokesperson for Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum, whose work focuses on combating gender-based violence, said they hoped the new legislation would help survivors of abuse. The amendment to the Domestic Violence Act now allows for victims to apply electronically at any time for a protection order.  This will allow magistrates to grant the orders without the applicants having to be in court. Arends said: “This is a victory indeed and a step in the right direction to protect women and children better. “Being able to file a protection order online is definitely a plus, (and) victims will not need to go through secondary trauma by facing their perpetrators. Training, however, must be given to all organisations to assist their clients. The SAPS must assist victims in this regard at police stations.” The inclusion of all sex offenders on the register, and not just those who have been convicted for crimes against children and persons with disabilities, was also welcomed. “Many of these perpetrators hide behind the system. People have a democratic right to know who is living among them. (The changes to the law) will also have a domino effect and will hopefully help parents look after their children better and result in men treating women better,” said Arends. However, Arends believed that, if the government had moved faster and enacted the legislation earlier, this might have helped a lot more victims who had suffered as a result of gaps in the law.