Cape Town - A 17-year-old boy was stabbed to death allegedly by a Grade 12 pupil from Gordon High this morning.  The pupil, Hlumisa Xaki, was allegedly attacked by two boys while waiting for a school bus to Faurie in Sir Lowry’s Pass. The two boys, aged 18 and 14, were taken away by the police. “Two boys stabbed him,” alleged Wheat Myburgh, a community activist from Sir Lowry’s Pass. “They are from Gordon High. They started beating him on Friday night. This morning he was waiting for his school bus, they came for him with two butcher knives.” Myburgh said almost every weekend there are stabbings involving young people in the area of Sir Lowry’s Pass.  “Every weekend and almost every day these kids stab each other. There is no solution, nothing whatsoever.” Parents started flocking to Gordon High following the incident after pupils asked to be fetched from school. One parent sent the Weekend Argus a picture of parents outside the school. He said pupils were worried that the pupils involved in gangsterism would enter the school and attack them. The City of Cape Town announced on social media that due to gang activity the Sir Lowry's Pass clinic is closed for further intake. “All clients in the clinic will be attended to. Other clients will be directed to Gordon's Bay clinic as well as Ikhwezi and Somerset West CDCs.” Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said they were informed by the police that a Grade 12 learner from Gordon High School allegedly stabbed another person. He could not confirm the age of the attacker or whether it was another learner. He said the learner has handed himself over to the police. “The school is receiving the necessary counselling support. There is a high police presence and visibility. SAPS would be best to confirm the incident and the details thereof as this is not a school-related event.” Police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk said that this morning at 6.40am an 18-year-old high school learner was fatally stabbed on his way to school in Sir Lowry's Pass.  “Two persons aged 14 and 18 were brought in for questioning. A murder docket was opened for further investigation. Anyone with any information about this incident is kindly requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.” Weekend Argus