Cape Town - The struggle of polishing shoes for schoolchildren has been lifted for Athlone single mothers.  Lorenzo van Rooyen and Dylan Joshua Mentor, along with their close friends, have taken it upon themselves to polish the shoes of young children every Sunday in Bridgetown and surrounding areas. Schools have now fully opened and single parents sometimes struggle if there is more than one child in the house. Sundays are used by most households to prepare for the school week. “This is very personal to both of us,” explained Van Rooyen. “We grew up with distant fathers. We know how it is to have siblings and your mother struggling. I saw a neighbour with four children and I decided to ask Dylan that we do something. I remembered that my mom struggled with polishing my shoes as she was busy with my two sisters. My mother used to fight with me to polish my shoes on Sunday.” Knowing their way around the community, they started compiling details of single parents and bought polish to prepare for their polishing journey. “We decided to be random when reaching out. Then it dawned on us that they will also need snacks. So we got them snacks that will last the whole week. Word spread out and some people started chipping in donations.” Mentor said their initiative is more than just polishing shoes.  “We are trying to give these children hope. It’s trying to make them understand that they are not alone, there are people looking out for them. It warms up my heart to see the kids smiling. It really brings up something in me that I cannot explain.” The pair are not new to initiatives that assist their community. Before the pandemic disrupted people’s lives, they used to hold Christmas lunches for the less fortunate. Anita Petersen said she hopes that more people could join the initiative or start similar ones in their communities.  “As a mother, you can do so much for your children. It is difficult when there is no father figure. These guys have conversations with the children and it does make a difference. I hope this is started everywhere in Cape Flats and it could prevent children from joining gangsterism.” The initiative has spread to Bonteheuwel and Heideveld. Weekend Argus