Cape Town - Activists are rallying to host a night vigil for victims of  Gender Based Violence after three women were found murdered at the weekend.  In the latest incident police were called to a crime scene in Mangold street in Wesbank on Sunday just after 1.40am. The 30-year-old woman’s body was found lying on the ground with several stab wounds. At the weekend, the bodies of two women were discovered in different locations in Gugulethu and Langa. Police have yet to make arrests in all the cases. Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said the motive for the attack in Wesbank was unknown at this stage. “At the crime scene they found the body of a female lying on the ground who sustained stab wounds on her body. The victim, a 30-year-old female, was declared deceased on the scene by medical personnel. The unknown suspect/s fled the scene in an undisclosed direction and are yet to be arrested. The motive for the attack is unknown. Mfuleni police are investigating a case of murder.” On Sunday, residents in Gugulethu woke up to find the body of a 40-year-old woman in a canal on the corners of NY44 and NY45. She had apparently been dragged out of her house and raped. Soon thereafter the body of a 26-year-old woman was discovered in a canal along Jakes Gerwel Drive in Langa. Activist Roegshanda Pascoe of Action United Against GBV said they would be hosting a night vigil on March 5 at the Grand Parade to break the silence of GBV and to remember victims. “When I do an event, it will be a night of honouring those and standing in the gap of all who have passed away, therefore it is a build-up when we do our application at the Constitutional Court but we cannot do that if we are not in unity. “The pain of the victims; this vigil is a call on everyone to unite and be the voice for those who have been taken away from us so viciously. Let’s send a message out: enough is enough.” Pascoe and the activist united are planning to take their plea of GBV to the Constitutional Court in June after 21 women and children were murdered during lockdown. Weekend Argus