Africa Games Week will be hosted in Cape Town  after being rescheduled in December due to travel restrictions imposed by the fourth wave. The event, initially scheduled for  December will be hosted from  February 23 to 25 at the V&A Waterfront. The event will be a hybrid event, hosted in person on the first day and hosted via streaming on days two and three. Africa Games Week is one of the largest gatherings for African game developers in the world. In the past, nearly 150 developers from across the continent attended the event. Event co-founder, Rex Bowden, said due to Covid-19 still being a factor, they decided to split the format. “While we could have moved the event to a fully virtual format, we believed it would compromise too much on the excellent program we had developed with all the hosted buyers, creators and developers we were flying out from Africa and other parts of the world,” he said. He added: “Our event is about growing and strengthening the African developer and creator community through in-person meetings and experiences.” Companies like Xbox, PlayStation, Nintendo and many more come together to meet and plan for future products. Bowden said the event was a great opportunity for personal opportunities and for connections and knowledge to be shared across great minds in the African gaming industry. “Africa Games Week 2022 is bringing together core gaming industry and community representatives, creators, developers and publishers; from across Africa to meet and connect,” he said. He added: “We hope this will foster partnerships in the growth of the African game development industry locally and internationally.” City of Cape Town mayor  Geordin Hill-Lewis  said the city was proud to support and be the host city of Africa Game Week. “Gaming is fast becoming one of the most important and innovative sectors in technology. It is an area that cuts across various industries, creating solutions in entertainment and education, and has the potential for investment and major job creation opportunities.” He added: “As the City of Cape Town, our goal is to provide more support to this industry, including putting in place infrastructure and other mechanisms that enable it to thrive.” “Our support for events such as Africa Games Week is aimed at ensuring that game developers, especially the youth, have platforms to display their work while also meeting industry experts who can elevate their skills.” Tickets to the event can be purchased on the Africa Games Week website.