CAPE TOWN - Pumulo Mambwe recently matriculated top of his class at The Settlers High School enabling him to enrol to study medicines. But the lack of funding is a major obstacle standing in the way of the 19-year-old Zambian fulfilling his dream of becoming a doctor. Despite obtaining seven distinctions he has not been able to secure a bursary for the R80 000 needed to study at Stellenbosch University because he is of foreign descent. However Mambwe has at least been able to start his tertiary education, thanks to his father who managed secure enough funds for his registration. “I was unable to apply for bursaries as most of them are for South African citizens but my father has been able to secure the registration fees which cost us R15 000. I have always had a love for mathematics and problem solving, and this love started growing since I was in Grade 3,” said Mambwe. Having achieved a 93% average score for his Grade 12 exams with his highest mark being for Life Science in which he obtained 97%, Mambwe said he looked forward to university studies. “I have been inspired by the story of Gifted Hands by Ben Carson and this has made me determined to follow my dream and achieve my goals. I am grateful for the efforts of my school teachers and principal to help me further my studies despite the financial challenge,” said Mambwe. The Settlers High principal, Louisa Hall, described Mambwe as a, “lovely young man with a phenomenal brain”, who had also been part of the first teams in basketball and chess at the school. He has been at the school since Grade 9. “He really thinks out of the box and has the balance between his academics and extra-mural activities. He is a multi-talented child who held the position of deputy head boy at the school. What really stood out for me was that he and his brother had been living on their own while their parents were in Zambia;  he has had to take care of himself yet his diligence really showed. “I am confident and believe that he will become a top doctor and he is what our country needs to challenge the medical fraternity in years to come. He is truly remarkable and so humble, and just needs that chance to pursue his dream. If there is any way that he can be funded for his course fees, that would be a great help,” said Hall. Anyone wishing to assist Mamwe can contact Tracy Magson on 0722535874. Cape Times