Cape Town  – As we celebrate the day of love, we also shine a light on one of South Africa’s power couples.  Acclaimed-Cape Town ceramicist, Andile Dyalvane, and his wife, writer, audio artist and ceramicist, Nkuthazo Dyalvane, share their journey of love as they unpack how both their passion as creative artists brought them together. According to Andile, when they met in 2008, they used to travel by train from Retreat to Woodstock in Cape Town until one day he finally saw his then-crush and was immediately hooked. “I used to sketch in the train and one day I noticed this beautiful lady. I found her so interesting and attractive, but I could not get myself to speak to her. Then one day I made it easy for her to see my work, and I knew it would draw her attention. The next time we saw each other, she gave me a note with her details and asked to collaborate on a piece with me and that was when I knew she was a lady for me. We have since been collaborating artistically and as a couple, and we now have kids together,” he said. Andile said he knew it was love at first sight and since then, they have never looked back. His wife, Nkuthazo, said in their 10- year marriage, their deep respect for each other’s art has been one of the reasons for their phenomenal success, particularly for pieces and performances that connect modern life with traditional Xhosa practices and customs. “We spotted each other in the train and we both looked artistic. Some things you just attract without words, just by our energy. ‘’I made the first move as I knew he would not have the courage to approach me,” she giggled. “So I wrote him a note on a sweet wrapper, asking him for a collaboration, and that’s how we became much closer,’’ she said. Visual artist Blessing Ngobeni shared his observations on the couple’s creative work of arts, such as their large-scale, mixed-media paintings, which were often critical of the country’s political elite and highlighted their abuse of power. The Dyalvanes, and Ngobani and Firmino, will be among other artistic couples including Brett Murray and Sanell Aggenbach, Norman O’Flynn and Liza Grobler, Jake Aikman and Alexandra Karakashian, Maja and Gerard Marx. The power couple will also be participating in the upcoming Investec Cape Town Art Fair. The art fair is set to take place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre, from February 18 to 20 and is the first time that the event will be returning to its physical space since lockdown. Weekend Argus