Cape Town -  Harnessing the power of music, non-profit organisation Join Bands, Not Gangs (JBNG), is aiming to shield youngsters around Cape Flats using cohesive tunes to reduce the level of gangsterism in communities. Founded in 2018 by Berklee College of Music graduate Karien de Waal, the organisation aims to rehabilitate active street gangsters before they end up in the criminal justice system by using music lessons as a point of contact. "The issue in the communities is unemployment, because from unemployment stems the next wave of problems.  “Gangsterism is about recruiting young people to sell drugs, and when they recruit these youngsters, they drop out of school because of the turf lines that prevent gangsters from walking through various turfs to get to school. The drop outs lead to crimes being committed and their futures being thrown away. "What JBNG does, however, is to use music to help, because, firstly, it's a beautiful and fun activity. People love music, so making music together in a group setting is fun. Secondly, it creates a safe space where kids can meet in the afternoons, and it also gives them a new thing to focus on: developing their musical talent.  “Lastly, the music classes are helping to actually develop and discover what I believe will be incredible talent on the Cape Flats and beyond," said De Waal. Teaming up with the Black Stripe Foundation to create songs that give young artists professional studio and video experience, former “Idols” contestant Elwira Standili and pupils from Masibambane High School, Gideon Buruli and Zenande Vanqase, were among the few that got the opportunity to be featured on some of the songs produced by the organisation.  Standili, who grew up in Worcester, said she enjoyed using her talent and gift to make a positive impact as it influenced other young people from smaller communities, like herself, on what hope really is about. “I first started working with De Waal and the organisation three years ago on a song called ’Madiba Wethu’ (a song for Madiba), featuring myself and Loyiso Bala. That was the start of a great relationship. "The circumstances in which we grow normally become the ceiling, and we think that that's where it ends, but this organisation wants to change that mindset and restore hope in our younger generation.  “The future is bright, but only if you choose the light. That is why I love using my talent and gift to make a positive impact and influence on young people from smaller communities like myself," said Standili. Having experienced how the studio works for the first time, Buruli recalled how fun it was picking up the song structure, the chords, and the word felt like second nature to him. “I was looking forward to working with people because I was so used to writing and composing on my own. and I knew it was going to be a fun experience. The songwriting process was fun when we were picking the song structure, the chords, the word choice. “It was all fun. I had my doubts about the lyrics, because I felt like they were too emotional, but anyway, it turned out fun,” said Buruli. Having sent 10 gangsters to rehab in 2021 and using the success of the songs released, JBNG decided to run a songwriting/music video competition until the March 8 for Garden Route Youth in order to be able to raise a new generation of musicians from previously disadvantaged communities. De Waal added that JBNG wanted to continue communities and community centres by kick-starting their own music programmes, keeping in mind empowering other people in communities with the "how-to" of running their programmes, along with donating instruments to help them start their programmes. “In essence, we believe in the principle of displacement. Gangsterism isn't just going to disappear by itself, but we can displace gangsterism with something else that gives the same feeling of belonging and we would like to displace gangs with bands. “So we’d like to ask the public to donate instruments to us, whether new or second-hand, so that we can help start more programmes in Kraaifontein, the greater Cape Flats and anywhere where gangsterism is a problem,” said De Waal. Weekend Argus