DURBAN - Private investigator Brad Nathanson said he did not think that the man accused of raping and robbing an elderly woman on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast had been arrested, and if he had been arrested, he would be shocked to his core. Last week Nathanson revealed that a 67-year-old woman had been raped and robbed at her home. Nathanson said that on January 13, at around 1pm, the woman was at the back door of her home in Sea Park, Port Shepstone, when she was pushed back inside her kitchen by a suspect who was armed with a handgun. The suspect pointed the gun at the victim and pulled the trigger more than once but they were “dry fires”. “The suspect tied up the victim and her mother. He was aggressive from the start and he bullied the two women into submission. “He ransacked the house and would return to torment the victim during his two-hour search through the house for valuables. He screamed only profanities at the victims. “Before he left the suspect decided, likely because there is no fitting consequence in this country for crimes like these, to rape the 67-year-old victim,” Nathanson said. Speaking to the Daily News on Wednesday, Nathanson said he did not think the man had been arrested and thought the man arrested must have been arrested for other crimes. “I don’t think it’s him,” Nathanson said about the man who had been arrested. “It would shock me to my core if he had been arrested.” On Tuesday on the Brad Nathanson Investigations page, Nathanson urged people not to drop their guard. The post read: “There has been a sigh of relief from many people who believe that the suspect responsible for the rape of the victim of a home invasion in Sea Park … has been arrested. This is not yet confirmed. Whereas we hope that the right man has been arrested for this particular crime, it is of my consideration that this man arrested may not be the suspect in the most recent rape case (January 13). To this end I urge you to stay vigilant, particularly in the area of Sea Park (South Coast KZN) and surrounds.” (sic) Nathanson shared the description of the suspect again and an Identikit as per the victim’s description. The suspect is described as: Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Southport SAPS detectives were investigating a case of house robbery and rape. “It is alleged that the victim, 88, was at her residence with her daughter, 66, when they were accosted by an unknown armed man. The suspect took the victims into two separate rooms, robbed them of their belongs and raped the daughter. The victims managed to untie themselves and called for help,” Mbele said. Daily News