Esteemed South African trumpeter  Fezile “Fey”' Faku is making a comeback with launch of two albums after a three-year hiatus due to his battle with Bell’s palsy. Faku described dealing with the condition brought on by severe stress, as a very dark time in his life. “I recall doctors telling me that there is no cure. I had to do exercises in front of the mirror,” he said. He added: “Some people recover from it in two months but it took me just over two years and it was scary.” As a trumpeter requiring full mobility in his face to play his instrument, Faku said he felt disheartened by the paralysis in the face. “I had no idea what this condition was and I didn’t know I was this stressed. I thought it was a stroke, but my speech was fine,” he said. “I found a guy on YouTube who was a trumpet player that suffered from Bell’s palsy. He gave me hope that I would regain my strength again and it gave me courage.” After recovering from his illness, Faku went on to complete an artist residency in Switzerland and it was here that the two albums were birthed. The veteran musician said having healed from the condition gave him a new lease on life, which is what inspired the launch of Impilo and Live at The Bird’s Eye late last year. Impilo was created with pianist David Virelles from Cuba and bassist Fabian Gisler from Switzerland. Live at The Bird’s Eye was created with a Swiss quintet featuring South African guitarist Keenan Ahrends. Having played very few performances last year, Faku said this tour was a career relaunch for him. “I created these albums for everyone across generations and hope that they will all be able to enjoy it,” he said. “I am looking forward to playing in front of an audience, especially in intimate spaces,” he added. Faku, who plays the piano and trumpet, said he remains inspired by spending time with his instruments. “Most songs come from practice and just messing around with the piano. I use the piano to help me write music.” The artist has been playing the trumpet for 40 years and recalls how listening to music is what inspired him to learn. “Our family used to collect records and where I come from in New Brighton, there was a centre we would go to, to play music.” Faku, who turns 60 this year, said he wanted to teach music in the next few years. “I want to teach those who are open to learning. I like doing group classes and teaching a group of musicians,” he said. He added: “The culmination of seeing someone not be able to play an instrument, to play a song, is a beautiful process.” Faku said the state of the South African music scene is inspiring to him. “We have a lot of young musicians that are taking music to a higher level. It’s great to see them put more music out there, with such a broad range of artists,” he said. His month-long tour of both albums started yesterday in his hometown Gqeberha.  Freedom to be honest: Feya Faku on tour will run until March 26. The tour will make a stop in Cape Town on March 19 and 20.