Cape Town - Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay has become known for the devastating shack fires that set back the livelihoods of residents. The area might be seen as quiet, but crime is slowly getting out of hand.  As a result, residents are getting frustrated with the police, with some taking the law into their own hands. A group of men in the area started a patrol group and Bulelani Malangeni said their group always clashes with the police.  “The police see us doing their job and they come after us,” he said. “We exist because the police are not working well with the community. We have cases of our members who were shot that were never resolved. Crime is on the rise in Hout Bay and the police are under-resourced, we cannot stand and fold arms.” He denied that they were involved in the vigilante justice happening in the area. Community member Zolani Mgijima said community members were fed up with crime and would act.  “Hout Bay is big. If the police target the patrollers, who will look after us? Taking the law into our hands is wrong, but what do you do when a criminal is roaming the streets and the police are doing nothing? The police respond late when we call them, yet they are quick to arrest people who deal with criminals.” In October last year, Sinobomi Sivatsha, 23, was fatally stabbed after an argument broke out at a local tavern. His killers are known in the community as the incident happened in the presence of his girlfriend and friends.  “We heard that the suspect confessed to his family,” said family spokesperson Athi Sivatsha. “We heard from community members that an arrest was made. We later saw the suspect in the community and the detective is not saying anything to us about the progress of the case.” Athi’s best friend, Songezo Ndirha, said whenever they see one of the suspects they get angry and want to avenge their brother’s death.  “Athi is not taking this well. He is so angry at the police and the suspect, I am worried he might do something. Police here do not care. We had a case where a man was found with the body of his girlfriend. We saw him back in the community just a few days after his arrest.” Police spokesperson Colonel Andrè Traut said the police were investigating the murder of Sinobomi.  “The case was registered and investigation led to the arrest of two suspects who are currently out on bail.” “The case is remanded for 2022/03/24 at Wynberg court and further investigation is still under way. The family can contact the branch commander at Hout Bay SAPS Detective or the station commander if they have any complaints regarding the investigation.” Only after the Weekend Argus  inquiry was the family was made aware of the next court date. Weekend Argus