Cape Town - With close to 50 years of karate experience pumping through their blood, a Belhar family is giving back to the community every day by teaching children discipline and punctuality. One of the family members, Michaela Fourie, 22, is the current Kimura Shukokai World Champion. The tournament was held in Sweden in 2018. She also achieved third place in the kumite division and received bronze. Due to the global pandemic, the tournament which is held every two years, was placed on hold and is expected to take place in 2023. Now with 15 years’ experience in the sport, Michaela has achieved senior black belt status and is a sensei at the Samurai Karate Matroosberg dojo which is run by their uncle, David Windvogel. Windvogel is a veteran in karate and began training 49 years ago, mastering his skills from the Japanese Karate Association to Kimura Shukokai Karate. Michaela’s sister, Meeca, who is in Grade 12 at Belhar High School, reached second place and received silver for kata during the 2018 Sweden tournament and is an assistant sensei. Windvogel said the legacy began when he was just a little boy under the guidance of his father who was a wrestler, introducing him to contact sport. Now their dojo which opened its doors in 2007 in a backyard, teaches discipline and punctuality and pride to children from the community. “My father introduced me to the fighting art,” said Windvogel. “Our teaching style focuses on the power of the strikes. We hit hard and the power is the thing, we are focusing on body mechanics and keeping control of your feet and power comes… speed and balance.” Windvogel said the ideology began during a church and is now an extension of  that. “It started as a church outreach programme and karate teaches these children about obedience, consistency and I never had the opportunity to work with these childrens’ parents but these children.. “People often have to weigh their options if they want to see a loaf of bread or tournaments, but by the grace of God we are able to provide and help where we can.” Their mother, Janine said she was proud of her daughters for investing back in the community. They host local tournaments for fundraising. “We host local tournaments for the children to compete and it helps with the fundraising. “We are still in need of tatami practice mats and karate uniforms for some of the children.” Michaela said she felt proud of investing back in the community where she once trained as a child: “I’ve always been assisting the sensei and then one day I had to be in charge of a dojo session and classes. “My message to the youth is that this sport has taught me to be disciplined and punctual. Even when I attended school or when I was disobedient at home, the sensei would discipline me at the dojo,” she said. Michaela said she would be fighting to keep her title next year during the world championships. Weekend Argus