THREE Bangladeshi families breathed a sigh of relief after their loved ones were released this weekend after 16 days in captivity. The three were kidnapped at their business premises in Samora Machel on June 17, and one of the families believe that a kidnapping syndicate is behind the incident. The perpetrators gave them a deadline to pay a R5 million ransom, which expired on Thursday. But the victims were ultimately released at a negotiated price of R100 000. A representative from the Bangladesh Business Forum, Mohammed Hossain, confirmed that the three were released on Friday night. “They were thrown in Khayelitsha and they took the Uber to Samora Machel. We are feeling better … but they are in hospital now,” he said. Hossain said the perpetrators burnt plastic onto their bodies. In a tearful interview with Weekend Argus early this week, the older brother of two of the victims, Foaij Ullar, 41, said the perpetrators threatened to kill them and “throw all their bodies under the bridge”. Ullar burst into tears while describing the relationship he had with his brothers. “We had a fantastic relationship. I did not eat for three days and I’m only eating a little bit now. There is nothing I can do -  I only pray,” he said. At least five Bangladeshi nationals were kidnapped last month. One was kidnapped in Table View and another in Blue Downs. The national figure of kidnappings released  in June by Police Minister Bheki Cele showed that 3 306 kidnapping cases were opened with the police in the first three months of the year. This crime trend has shown an increase, with over 1 700 more cases reported to the police compared to the same period last year. Most of the kidnapping cases were related to hijacking, robbery and rape. The Institute for Security Studies’ Lizette Lancaster said kidnapping for extortion or ransom contributed to less than 5% of the crime sample analysed by the police. She said many kidnappings were not reported for fear that the victims or their businesses would be harmed. “The year-on-year increase is 8% for the Western Cape, but a 198% increase for Gauteng for the three months January to March 2022,” Lancaster said. The Crime Intelligence National Anti-Kidnapping Task Team was established on November following a spike in kidnapping cases where a ransom was demanded. The SAPS said the Crime Intelligence National Anti-Kidnapping Task Team, established in November 2021, was dealing with the abductions that were fuelled by ransom demands. Radio reports revealed that SAPS said it was making inroads after arresting 100 suspects allegedly involved in kidnappings.