Cape Town - With Mandela Day around the corner, human rights organisation, The Justice Desk, is set to mark the occasion with a clothing in need drive through its Umoya Project on Saturday. And they are challenging everyday activists to donate R67 to improve the lives of those living at Missionaries of Charity Home and to spend 67 minutes with them. The Umoya Project which operates out of a Khayelitsha home focuses on the rights of the disabled, sick and elderly. Since the project’s establishment in 2013, they have worked with close to 900 people. A resident living with Parkinson’s disease said: “The Justice Desk has made my life worth living. They have helped me live with dignity and made me feel so loved. They are my family.” Head of communications at The Justice Desk Shamryn Brittan said many individuals found themselves living at the home for long periods, while others never leave. “The sisters at Missionaries of Charity do a tremendous amount of work serving the most vulnerable, however, due to the large need, they often struggle with the day to day running of the home. These past few years have been particularly difficult as the pandemic forced us to stop our monthly sessions as we did not want to put our residents’ lives, many of whom are elderly, at risk. “Now that restrictions have eased we are currently in the process of upgrading the facilities for our Umoya residents and starting up monthly sessions led by dedicated and committed long-term volunteers. We desperately need outside support to improve the home and provide the residents with the love and support they so need and deserve. “Nelson Mandela once said: ‘It is in your hands, to make a better world for all who live in it’ and at The Justice Desk we believe in this message and the power of the everyday person to bring about extraordinary change. Every contribution helps us reach our goals of creating a better world so join us, and donate today,” Brittan said. For more information, email: info@justicedesk.org. Weekend Argus