Cape Town - Theft charges have been laid against three City of Cape Town Mayco members following an alleged attack and illegal confiscation of properties from a Hout Bay residence last week. Ginola Phillips, 23, of Hangberg, opened a case with the Hout Bay SAPS on Friday after the City’s Law Enforcement anti-land invasion unit allegedly forcefully removed about 3 000 bricks in front of his house. SAPS provincial police spokesperson Ndake Gwala said: “A theft case was registered for investigation at Hout Bay SAPS. No arrest has been made.” City mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis, Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith and Mayco member for human settlements Malusi Booi are expected to face the law as Phillips believes the officers acted on instructions from the authorities. Phillips has demanded an apology and the replacement of his bricks. “This is not the first time I am attacked by the law enforcement and I am tired of this. They served me a court order with wrong information and erf number, my place is erf5606, not erf2844, and I explained that but they wouldn’t listen. “I can’t live in fear while I don’t break any law. I work hard to earn my living and I look for alternatives to get bricks as I want to build a safety wall to stop water from coming into my house when it rains. I have spent over R6 000 on those bricks because I mostly buy from marketplace. I want them back and I want all of them to apologise. “You know what, police also tried to stop me from opening the case, saying I should solve it with the City,” said Phillips. Gwala added: “The complainant was questioned to ascertain if the allegations contained elements of crime. The case is under investigation.” IOL previously reported on other attacks on Phillips by Law Enforcement. In 2020, the Western Cape High Court reportedly ordered the City to rebuild his house (in July) after it found that they acted illegally when demolishing it in June. In another incident, he was shot at with rubber bullets during a public protest in April this year. Speaker for the City of Cape Town Felicity Purchase, responding on behalf of the Mayco trio, denied Phillips’ claims. “The Office of the Speaker deals with Code of Conduct violations and no complaint in the above-mentioned regard has been received,” she said. Spokesperson for City Law Enforcement Wayne Dyason added: “The City removed bricks to prevent Mr Phillips from building further as per the 2010/2011 and the 2022 court order and due to public violence that erupted while conducting this operation. We engaged Mr Phillips and advised him to remove the bricks from the site, but he indicated he would not adhere to that instruction and would continue with his plan to build. Mr Phillips should first approach the City in order to make an application to build his house further and wait until the approval is granted.” Phillips has sought interventions from the Human Rights Commission. “Ginola has lodged a complaint with the Commission. It is being assessed and we will be in contact with him in due course,” confirmed Matthew du Plessis, the acting provincial manager. “I will do anything to get justice,” said Phillips. Weekend Argus