THE Drakenstein municipality has debunked reports that it succumbed to political pressure to recognise and use Afrikaans and isiXhosa as official council languages. The Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) previously argued that after sustained pressure, it succeeded in forcing the DA-controlled Drakenstein local municipality to also recognise and use Afrikaans and isiXhosa as council languages. "The party persisted in its fight against the disregard of Afrikaans in the Drakenstein council as one of the eleven constitutional national languages ​​and one of the three languages ​​recognised in the Western Cape constitution," said André Fourie, FF Plus councillor in the Drakenstein local municipality. Fourie argued that from June 30, interpreting services would be made available to enable councillors to take part in debates in either Afrikaans, English or isiXhosa. "The FF Plus will also fight the municipality's decision to release all official municipal documents in English only." Fourie said on inquiry to the municipal manager, Johan Leibbrandt, that when the municipality decided to make all documentation available in English only, he “made his ignorance clear” by referring to English as South Africa's official national language and citing it as a reason for the use thereof. In terms of Article 6 of the Constitution, it is unconstitutional.  Fourie added that in Drakenstein's case, 70% of the residents were Afrikaans-speaking and that it was no less than right to make all documents available to these residents in their mother tongue.  However, Koos le Roux, speaker of the Drakenstein municipality, said councillors could always speak the language of their choice - whether Afrikaans, isiXhosa or English - in council meetings, after which it was interpreted immediately.  “It is a pity that the FF Plus uses language and specifically Afrikaans as a political football.“ Le Roux said the Drakenstein municipality through executive mayor, Conrad Poole, and the ruling party, the DA, was at the forefront of protest action against the proposed name change of the Afrikaans Taalmonument.  “The executive mayor and the city manager are Afrikaans-speaking, and the municipality is and has always been a big supporter of Afrikaans.” Le Roux said it was “a blatant lie” that Leibbrandt said that English is the official national language.  “What he referred to on the occasion in question is that Drakenstein municipality, out of practical considerations and to ensure that no one is excluded, decided on English as the official medium of instruction. This is also the practice at most other municipalities and government institutions in South Africa.” He said holding meetings and making documents and other forms of communication available in Afrikaans in the Drakenstein municipality would mean that people are excluded.  "Making all documents and communication available in three languages ​​is impractical and not cost-effective, and it will also delay and hinder the simultaneous provision of information. However, the municipality strives to take into account the language preference of our residents at all times and in all activities.” Le Roux adds that residents are entitled to use Afrikaans, English or isiXhosa when contacting the municipality.  “All written and oral communication with taxpayers is handled or answered in the language of choice of the taxpayer. The municipality strives to serve residents in the language of their preference and, as far as practicable, to make an interpreter available if necessary.” As far as council meetings are concerned, according to Le Roux, Drakenstein municipality follows the same system as in parliament where councillors can speak the vernacular of their choice - Afrikaans, isiXhosa or English - after which it is interpreted immediately.  "This is and has always been the practice, except during the Covid-19 lockdown period when most board meetings took place virtually via Microsoft Teams and interpreting services were not possible. “Over the last few months, due to Covid-19, council meetings have taken place in the Paarl City Hall or Huguenot Community Hall in Paarl because social distances had to be maintained,” Le Roux said.  He added: “A complete interpreting system (with soundproof translation rooms, complete microphone systems and headphones for all board members) would not have been practically possible. Therefore, the speaker requested the councillors’ permission to conduct the council meetings in English and to offer an interpreting service on request.” Le Roux said councillors agreed.