Cape Town - A video showing how a police court orderly gets arrested for the possession of drugs has taken social media by storm. In the one-minute video, the member identified as Sergeant Nicholas Dyanti appears to be as calm as a millpond while the VW Caravelle Kombi is being searched. Halfway through the video, made on the day of his arrest on June 28, Dyanti’s rights are read to him while the officer asks for permission to search the van and counts around over 20 neatly wrapped packets containing drugs. According to a police source this was not the first arrest made that day. Earlier on the same morning, a constable who is also a court orderly was arrested for the possession of dagga. According to the police source, the constable and the sergeant worked as court orderlies at the Cape Town Regional court. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said the constable was arrested in Barrack Street, Cape Town, around 10:20am on June 28, while members attached to the Anti-Corruption Investigating Unit held observations outside Cape Town Regional Court. The purpose of the observation was to monitor an operation. “The constable was found in possession of dagga, it was seized and the member was detained at Table Bay Harbour SAPS. “He was charged with corruption by the SAPS Western Cape Anti-Corruption Unit.” Van Wyk said the operation also led to the arrest of Dyanti. “During the morning a member in SAPS uniform was observed placing a bag inside a White VW Caravelle. “The member was identified as a sergeant attached to (a court orderly) Cape Town Regional Court. “On completion of the operation, the vehicle was approached. “Whilst members were at the vehicle, the sergeant approached them. “The members identified themselves and permission was asked to search the vehicle.” Van Wyk said when the bag was opened members noticed that the bag contained dagga, tik and mandrax tablets wrapped in plastic. “The illegal substances were seized and handed in as exhibits. “The member was arrested on a charge of dealing in drugs and was detained at Woodstock SAPS.” The arrested officers appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court the next day and their cases were postponed to August and October respectively. Weekend Argus