Cape Town - A teenager was a among the five people nabbed by Metro Police in four separate incidents for various crimes including the possession of drugs, a gun and stolen property on Wednesday morning. In what officials describe as a busy morning, officers conducting patrols or responding to complaints managed to confiscate drugs, including Tik worth R50 000 and retrieve a stolen vehicle. The City’s metro police spokesperson Ruth Solomons said one of the first arrests occurred when officers attached to the K9 unit apprehended two suspects for house robbery and recovered a stolen vehicle. “The officers were on patrol when they received (information) about a house robbery in Goodwood earlier where a vehicle was taken with other household items. “During patrols in Freedom way, Marconi Beam, officers spotted the stolen car with two occupants. “They stopped and searched the vehicle. Various household items with the victim’s identity and drivers license were discovered,” she said. Solomons said a 21-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man were arrested for the possession of a stolen motor vehicle, the possession of suspected stolen property, house breaking implements and dangerous weapons and were detained at Milnerton police station. The second arrest took place in Beacon Valley, Mitchells Plain. Solomons said officers were conducting stop and searches in the area when a young man acted suspiciously. “When they searched him they found a kilogram plastic bag with uncut tik worth R50 000 in his backpack,” she said. The 19-year-old was detained at Mitchells Plain SAPS. The fourth arrest took place in Durbanville while officers were conducting patrols, said Solomons. “They noticed a man who ran when he saw them. “He was apprehended in Baxter Road and the officers stopped him from swallowing drugs he had in his possession,” she said. Upon his arrest, officers confiscated 12 small bags of Tik and mandrax pills in various sizes.  The 39-year-old was detained at Durbanville SAPS. Metro police also arrested a 24-year-old suspect for the possession of a prohibited firearm and ammunition in Manenberg. Solomons said the suspect’s arrest took place shortly before 11am as officers were patrolling the area after complaints about shootings. “Upon approach, the men attempted to flee, but officers apprehended one and recovered a 9mm Norinco Star pistol and one 9mm live round. “The officers were surrounded by a crowd who managed to help the suspect escape from custody,” she said. Solomons said in the process, two patrol vehicles were damaged and equipment was stolen from the patrol vehicles. “With the assistance from CCTV surveillance, the officers were guided to the suspect’s location further down the road, and he was re-arrested. “Additional charges of malicious damage to property and theft from motor vehicles were laid,” Solomons concluded.