Cape Town - A 70-year-old former courier driver is leading by an example as he rolls up his sleeves and regularly clean the streets of Elsies River. Benjamin Browne retired from his job in December last year and has since started community work – paintings dull walls, planting flowers along streets and in community parks, and attending to drains. He says this is his way of giving back to his community and of him staying healthy at his age. Browne mobilises youth to help, saying it should all start with them, before “government or anyone else” comes to help. He said this is not an easy task but he decided that instead of complaining about the filth, mostly caused by youngsters in his area, he’d rather show them they can make a positive impact for the betterment of their community and themselves. “These young people lack motivation, and our communities need them to be proactive in order to change the situations we face with. I live in Connaught Estate and have always worried about the state of our community, and youth having nothing to do but sit in the corners and smoke. "When I retired, I had plenty of time to try to change their mindset. It’s not easy because they hope to be paid when doing something, but that doesn’t stop me from inviting a few.  “I sometimes just work on my own and have some voluntarily joining. I know this will change with time and they will soon claim their community and be proud of the little contributions they’ve made,” said Browne. He uses his own equipment and gets help from his family to buy whatever is needed for each task. “Like many would say, this isn’t my responsibility, we have a government that’s supposed to be servicing our communities and clearing blocked drains. But who suffers while we wait? How long has our community been like this, for hoping officials would notice and come to our rescue? Let us just do our part and those people can meet is halfway. It is our lives that are affected, after all." Resident Danjicke van Wieling recently started getting involved and he helped clean the drains last week. “Uncle Benjamin dedicates his time to cleaning up and looking after his community, he takes pride in what he does and refuses to give up until he sees the positive change he would like to.  “He is extremely hard working and a true inspiration to the youth of Elsies River. He has painted the wall, cleaned the drains, swept the streets and he continues to look after and maintain the garden as well.” His son-in-law, Steve Ross, said: “I was surprised when he started off with his work and I we as family support him. He’s so energetic for his age, and you can see how peaceful and happy he becomes after each successful task. I just hope he can inspire more people, especially youth, to join him.” Weekend Argus