Cape Town - A brave burn survivor from Gugulethu will launch her book, Finding Beauty In Your Scars, aimed at empowering and reviving hope in those living with visible scars. The 63-page book details Thinasonke Kambi's tragedy, which left her with 76% burn injuries to her body. The incident occurred in 2017 when her home was gutted, claiming her father's life. Kambi was in Grade 9 at the time and lost a year of schooling as she underwent multiple surgeries and physiotherapy at the Red Cross Children's War Memorial Hospital. She said it was better to stay at the hospital than going home to face her reality. Although Kambi vowed to have found healing in writing, she admitted it wasn't a walk in the park. “I was having flashbacks and an emotional breakdown because I felt like I was opening old wounds. “As I was discharged from the hospital and reality kicked in, I had to go and face the world with a different look. I was noticeable everywhere I went. “That affected me in so many ways. I lost my self-confidence along the way, trying to accept myself while others were rejecting me. I found myself hiding at home, and I took writing as my therapy. I began to write all those encounters  and compiled them in a form of a book," said Kambi. She explained that all 17 chapters in the book carried a strong message to everyone hiding from the world and those who find it difficult to accept their scars.  “People must find beauty in themselves and their insecurities because everyone has scars of their own: some are physical, some emotional, and some mental, so this book restores hope  and self-confidence." The book was published last year, and due to financial constraints, Kambi could only launch it now. Kambi is studying occupational therapy at the University of Western Cape and believes that the career will help her fulfil her mission of being a motivational speaker, an activist and an artist, liberating many from their insecurities. “There are people out there who needs my light and raging courage. I was chosen to wear these scars and my aim to heal others through my story. My main aim is to end the stigma, people with differences should not be excluded or labelled odd," said Kambi. Her mom, Zukiswa Kambi, said: “Thina has been through the most but came out stronger. Her courage and bravery surprises me every day. I am very proud of her and hope the book will heal and inspire many people." Selemela Makhetha from Langa said she's in the same social media group with Kambi, whose strong character inspired her to want to read the book. Makhetha describes the book as a revolutionary piece aimed at liberating the emotionally oppressed survivors. “It’s so revolutionary and liberating. I believe it won't just inspire those living with scars, but anyone who encounters a life-changing experience will see it's not about what people see but what's inside you that matters." Kambi is doing in-person sales at a cost of R150 a copy or R210, including courier nationwide. For more information, contact Kambi via WhatsApp at 063 475 4291 or visit her Facebook profile Thinasonke Siyonwaba Kambi.