Cape Town - Their aim is to build stronger communities in South Africa through the empowerment of gogos. GoGOGOgo started an information and communications technology awareness and training project in Alexandra in Gauteng last year. They taught gogos how to use tablets, skills they would need to make better use of the internet and the many applications they need to assist themselves, family members and friends. The NPO partnered with Vumatel to bring this project to more gogos across the country, using schools, which receive fibre from the technology and communications company, as their base. Apex High School in Eerste River was chosen as a pilot partner for the Cape Town expansion. The project ran from July 4 to July 14 and ended with a graduation ceremony yesterday. Lutchmee Cornelissen, who has two grandchildren attending Apex High School, said she was thrilled to be part of this programme. “I think it is a marvellous programme, because it will help us to assist our grandchildren at home with their learning. Often I would listen to the principal’s voice note in the morning and she will talk about the work that the pupils must do, but then when I ask my grandchildren they will just say they are done. Now, I can look for myself and hold them accountable. “I learnt how to operate the tablet, from the Play Store and created my own email account. I also learnt about the school’s intervention programmes. I am now better equipped to assist my grandchildren and also know about things which can help me,” she said. Principal of Apex High School, Renate van der Westhuizen, said it was a great initiative. “It was not something that I thought about before the NPO approached me. (However I noticed) how much we rely on technology and how frustrating it must be to not know your way around the different tools. It is crucial for all people to be up to date with the latest technology. “We are really excited to reach our parent communities with efforts such as these. A school is a community and we need to include all parts of the community. We are excited to also include our parents and gogos,” she said. GoGOGOgo training facilitator and researcher, Bradley Chauke, said: “Gogos are important because millions of children in South Africa and many more across the continent are being raised by them. Gogos are the breadwinners and heads of many households in the country and play a huge role in the decision-making in many of our homes. Gogos also hold a lot of our cultural memories and pass on valuable knowledge and advice to younger generations. “Ever since the pandemic, the reliance on the use of technology for communication and access to services and opportunities has really been accelerated and become integral to many societal functions. Gogos need to be better enabled to navigate this and be better prepared to assist the children they are raising and the communities they live in,” he said. Weekend Argus