Cape Town - The 26-year-old brother of  Rafique Hardien has spoken out against police. Redaa Hardien claimed the police are giving high-profile cases more attention than that of an innocent child, then aged 5 years, who was murdered 18 years ago. Redaa shared his frustrations – a year after top police officials at Mitchells Plain Police Station promised to revisit the case and carry out a fresh investigation after meeting with the family. To date nothing has happened. Redaa was only eight years-old at the time Rafique was murdered. Last year police revealed that the inquest docket had been changed to a murder case. This had not been communicated to the family and instead senior police met with Shaakierah Hardien, Rafique’s mother and another relative. Redaa said he was angry that police had not given the case priority after promising to do so. “I feel frustrated because nothing is happening to my brother’s case but high-flyers and gangsters’ cases are being seen to and we have been seeking answers but knowing no-one is coming back to us,” he said. Last year, after the article was published, the family went on to be interviewed on a television programme about the case, where it was revealed that a cellphone had allegedly been found next to Rafique’s body. “Why is it that we are only hearing now about the evidence, why wasn’t this mentioned before?” he added. Redaa said growing up without his little brother, who now would have been 23, was an emotional roller-coaster. “Growing up without my brother for 18 years, has been horrible and hell,” he said. “I never knew our lives would have been like this. Many nights, I lay awake and ask why this happened to our family. This case broke our family. In a few week’s time, it will be my brother’s birthday. I  do not know what to expect and I do not know what it feels like to wish him a happy birthday. If I could just see my brother’s smile one last time.” Shaakierah, who is a reservist in the South African Police is not able to speak to the media due to the Code of Ethics. Weekend Argus also approached her for comment after she had met with senior police a year ago. “All I want is justice for my son,” she said. Rafique had been playing at the neighbour’s home in Portland, Mitchells Plain when he vanished and a search began for him on August 2004. Seventeen days later, Rafique’s decomposed body was found at a swimming pool in Westridge, Mitchells Plain. The National Prosecuting Authority said they had exhausted all avenues in an attempt to prosecute convicted rapist and killer Richard Junior Engelbrecht, who is serving three life terms for his former girlfriend’s daughter, Annestacia Wiese, 11, in 2007 in Woodlands. Engelbrecht had been the family’s neighbour. A formal inquest was held into Rafique’s death and the evidence, led by neighbours and family, were inconclusive. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions decided it was too risky to attempt prosecution because Engelbrecht did not confess to Rafique’s murder but claimed a coffee table had fallen on the child while he had been inside another room, at the residence in Portland. Weekend Argus