Determined to instil a love for past childhood games in the younger generation, a few older residents from Mitchells Plain came together to serve up a storm in a local game of street tennis. The game, usually played using sand or chalk to draw lines for the courts and potato or onion bags for nets, has for years been the go-to for past generations, especially during the Wimbledon Championships. While the championship ended on Sunday, Mitchells Plain residents are preparing to reintroduce the game to youngsters in their community.  “We are bringing Wimbledon to Westridge, old-school style,” explained event organiser Rodney “Scarra” Brown. Brown, in just 48 hours, managed to get players from his childhood days back together to battle each other in a game last Thursday. Brown said he did not expect to get the big turn-out he received on the day of the event. “I also randomly tagged people to (go up against) each other, including ward councillor Ashley Potts, Irafaan Abrahams and local soccer star Shamiel Permall. “The deputy mayor, Eddie Andrews, looked for a game,” Brown joked. Andrews said he took part in the event to celebrate sports and how some games could be made easily accessible without the need for large facilities or a lot of equipment.  The turn-out to the event also proved to be fruitful. More than 100 adults came out to either show their support or to take part in the one-on-one, minute-long matches. But this is just the beginning as the group is planning a sports day on July 16 in Westridge to attract children and adults of all ages.  Brown said last week’s event was to get children interested in the game. “We played street rules, that is also why I didn't choose who would play. Just like in the old days, you would just run to your friend’s house, call out their name and tell them to play. “It was a way to get everyone outside, and that's what we achieved, instead of children sitting on their phones, laptops or watching TV, we got them outside wanting to play. “We hope to continue this for a very long time still, and yes we also understand that today's life is not the same like back then, but it's time we take back our streets and invest in our children and their future, so that they too can one day show their children.”