Cape Town - The City of Cape Town said there was no definite waiting period for insurance payouts when council units were damaged.  The City was clarifying the issue following instances where homeowners whose properties were damaged by fire, waited for a prolonged time. Authorities said part of the assessment included submitting quotations and photographs of the damages by the claimants.  This is a tricky task for elderly and illiterate claimants like Sophia van Willingh, 70, from Manenberg. Her house caught fire earlier this year, leading to her and her family living in a damaged home. Her double-storey semi-detached house was badly damaged and furniture was destroyed. Her grandchildren helped log a claim, but nearly six months later the damaged dwelling remains in the same state. Van Willingh was hopeful that the City would eventually come to her rescue as she was informed, through her grandchild, that the insurance claim was approved and the house would be fixed. “The were no time-frames, and the wait is unbearable. It’s winter, the place get wet each time it rains and wind blows through the broken windows. At my age, it is really painful. I wish the council could come and fix my house. “I was happy when I learnt the claim had been approved, but I didn’t know I would still have to suffer,” she said. Her daughter, Lavona Windvogel, said in May they learnt the City allocated     R30 000 for the repairs. Mayco member for Human Settlements Malusi Booi said the claim was approved and explained that a final assessment was carried out in March.  “The tender for the required work is being finalised and the repairs to the damaged home which is being prioritised, will commence in due course.” He said all insurance claims are investigated before repairs at City units take place. Another victim, See Solomon Mayongo, whose house caught fire as result of a faulty electricity box, in February 2020 submitted the required documents and photographs.  Unfortunately, as old as he is, the quality of photographs wasn’t good enough to illustrate the severity of damages. For this reason, he had to settle for almost half of his quoted amount to fix his house.  He was quoted about R35 000, but the City offered R18 000, late last year. Commenting on Mayongo’s delayed repairs, Mayco Member for Finance, Siseko Mbandezi, said: “There are no specific waiting periods within which claims that are submitted to the City’s Insurance Claims Services are finalised.  “Each claim is assessed and is dealt with on its own merits which is based on the factual circumstances that gave rise to the particular claim. “Regarding Mr Mayongo’s matter, it is important to note that the City was in regular contact with him about this claim and he was advised by City officials on the correct channels to follow up on. “Regrettably, the photographs submitted by Mr Mayongo did not clearly depict any of the items listed in his quotations, nor did they depict all of the damage that was caused to his dwelling. Thus, he was offered an amount of R18 000 which was deemed reasonable given the circumstances,“ explained Mbandezi. Solomon’s nephew, Dumisani Mayongo, said: “We ended up taking that small offer of R18 000. At least the roof is fixed, although the furniture is still messed up.” Weekend Argus