Cape Town - Some individuals and social groups have taken it upon themselves to help illiterate and disadvantaged citizens get help from the City.  Samantha Malan from Delft is one of the people offering help. She had a huge response from people requesting her service when she posted on Facebook that she would voluntarily help anyone who was struggling submitting service requests. Her idea was inspired by the growth of need from her street WhatsApp group to the broader community. “Some of the members extended my number to their pastors or church friends asking for assistance by logging queries. Within 24 hours these requests are attended to. People would send messages thanking me. This to me was a clear indication that there is a lack of assistance within the community. I then reached out to the community Facebook page, advising people can contact me. Within a few minutes my inbox was flooded with service requests. The requests ranged from street lights, wheelie bins, sewer issues. These I logged on the service request portal and what was more surprising to me was how quickly the City responded,” said Malan. Seymour Daniels from Atlantis is volunteering the service through a WhatsApp group called Municipal 4 Group. He said their initiative has proven a success as they service people from as far as, but not limited to, Philadelphia, Mitchells Plain and Paarl. He encouraged other residents to follow the trend and start being “the change they want to see”.  “The City provides the services, but it is our responsibility to drive it in the right direction. We know what’s needed in our communities. So instead of complaining let’s all do our part.” According to the City, a third party can log requests for some of the services without verification. These include reporting a blocked sewer, missing drain covers and other services. However, the City states that compliance with POPIA verification is mandatory when third parties are reporting on matters relating to private and council-owned houses, to establish authenticity. City spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibhongo explained: “Technology can be overwhelming for many people; however, we advise that residents enlist the help of people that they can trust. The City encourages neighbours to have good relations with each other and help each other where possible, thereby fostering the spirit of active citizenry and good neighbourliness. We attend to the logged requests on the assumption that it was logged by the affected resident.” Tyhalibhongo added that the City has mobile offices that visit disadvantaged areas across the city, where trained officials assist residents with issues relating to their municipal accounts and or service requests. He also said there are multiple customer interaction channels, including a self-reporting tool, telephone, free call lines, walk-in centres, email, WhatsApp, access to SmartCape at the libraries and SMSes which residents can choose according to their preference. “Furthermore, residents can connect with their local subcouncils, which exist to facilitate communication between City departments and the various neighbourhoods across Cape Town. Residents are also advised to report issues about councillors to the Office of the Speaker for investigation,” said Tyhalibhongo.