Nelson Mandela wrote: “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” Following his words, children in Kuils River will be able to enrich their education as a library is set to be opened on Mandela Day. Activist Latifah Jacobs is the founder of Aurorah, Kuils River CAN, an NPC that will be launching its own mini library in a bid to educate the youth and expose them to reading. Jacobs will showcase the new mini-library on July 18, Mandela Day and will have award-winning author Haroldene Tshienda present. Jacobs said reading was the building block for anyone’s career, especially children who would begin high school or university one day. She said their vision was to create an ethos reading in the community who were constantly sitting on digital devices. Jacobs’ organisation strives to make a difference in children’s lives by creating awareness about bullying, GBV and self-defence for women and runs 15 food hubs which feed those in need. “A few members of the Kuils River community started Kuils River CAN  in April 2020 with the aim to find a solution to the economic problems caused by the pandemic,” she said. “It became clear that there was a great need for food parcels, and therefore, food relief was identified as the greatest challenge in the area. “Within a short space of time, 15 food hubs were created to assist community members to relieve the pressing need for nutritious meals. “As the world faced an unprecedented socio-economic challenge caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, within a year, Kuils River CAN registered as a Non-Profit Company (NPC), and Aurorah was born. “As an NPC, the organisation takes a holistic approach to heal the community, one household at a time. “ Jacobs said the NPO evolved further by creating employment opportunities for the youth and showing them how to create their own income and also for those who had substance abuse issues. “We have gone from strength to strength, from serving meals to equipping our beneficiaries, enabling them to change their way of living by starting small businesses from their Sassa grants or registering them on necessary platforms where they can be trained for new possibilities. For example, during youth month, we assist youth to get free barista training from the youth and those that obtained the training, 70 percent became employed, 20 percent chose to study, and ten percent chose a different career. “Our mission to restore dignity has changed our operational concept according to the needs and growth of our beneficiaries. “This year, we have added literature workshops for our in and out of school children who have difficulties in reading and writing. “The second programme would be a positive parent program that would assist parents to adapt to the challenges of parenting. The third programme will be a Substance Abuse programme that will focus on raising awareness of substance abuse and referral to in or outpatient rehab. “Other programmes we assist in are awareness programmes: Anti-Bully campaigns, Gender-based violence (self-defence/healing in writing), Economic empowerment, Rural Outreach.” Jacobs added they did need assistance in launching their library on Madiba day and called on any donations such as books to help their cause: “Children not being encouraged to read they lose interest in education and when they get to college or university and with all the books they must research they lose interest. “Reading a book has been deemed as being boring to the youth. Why read when you can TikTok whole day. “The library will be launched on July 18 at 27 Lovebird Walk, Kuilsriver “Aurorah is in the next phase of reaching our goal to normalise access to resources within our community. “What better way than to celebrate Mandela Day by launching our own mini-library where we are creating a safe space to learn, read, and develop young minds, which is key to changing the narrative inside our communities. “We are honoured to have award-winning Author and publisher Mrs Haroldene Tshienda doing a book reading for the kids at 12.15pm, and we will proceed by feeding at 1.30pm.” Tshienda said she was thrilled to be part of a reading event and initiative for children: “I will be doing storytelling for the children and tell the stories about our children overcoming bullying and kindness and to practise kindness, and we will have toys such as teddy bears and unicorn, we have a donation of 67 books was donated by Anthea Thyssen, who is an author and inspirational speaker,  and publisher which will go to each child.” Weekend Argus