Cape Town – The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) has confirmed that mental health has always been part of life orientation curriculum. However, the department’s curriculum planner for life orientation Ismail Teladia said she did not think it would be a standalone subject, at least not in the foreseeable future. “Within the life orientation curriculum there is a focus on mental health and it is also incorporated into a number of different topics.  “Pupils are under tremendous pressure daily which includes: peer pressure, relationships, parents, examinations, self-esteem, under-achiever or over-achiever, poverty and gangs, these are but some. “It therefore becomes incumbent on school managers to ensure that specialist life orientation teachers are in the life orientation classes, so they can do justice to the pupils that they serve. “I think knowledge is always important but the interpretation of that knowledge to a vulnerable mind can be dangerous.  “For example, if a teacher were to unpack the topic of depression and a pupil misinterprets the information shared, he or she could end up becoming depressed because they see symptoms of that in themselves rightly or wrongly. “I, however, believe that knowledge is power and that people will use the knowledge gained to benefit their personal well-being,” she said. Educational psychologist at Stellenbosch University, Dr Carmelita Jacobs, said a problem that still exists is that too many young people are engaging in self-diagnoses of mental health issues due to the internet being full of information. “Many times I would have a young person come into my office and say I have this or that.  “Although being aware of a mental health condition can have many benefits, I think for pupils in school we should focus on developing resilience, critical thinking, creative thinking, social skills and problem-solving,” she said. Board member of the South African Society of Psychiatry, Dr Alicia Porter, said a collaboration should be in order to navigate mental health. “Schools are a necessary point of intervention, as this is the area of functioning of children and adolescents.  “If mental health is increased as part of the curriculum, it will serve as a prevention, but also a screening and early detection of ‘at risk’ young people. “Mental health in schools should include training of teachers to screen for mental health conditions to identify at-risk youth, training on basic counselling skills and the promotion and training of peer counsellors. “Parent training/counselling should also be part of the school programmes-intervention not only at the level of the pupils and teacher, but also equipping of parents. “They are also invaluable in the assessment process with children. This will also up-skill and empower parents,” she said. Weekend Argus