Cape Town - Milnerton High School will celebrate their past, present and future through a production called “The Story of Tonight”. The production marks the school’s decade-long theatrical moments and takes an intimate look at some of the highlights from “District Six”, “Hairspray”, “Grease”, “Annie” and their “High School Jam” moments. “The Story of Tonight” will take place at the Milnerton High School Auditorium later this month. This will be the school’s first production since the Covid-19 outbreak. Sabrina Kloft, 16, who is part of the production, said in the beginning she was nervous. “Before the pandemic we were stuck in a routine and then everything stopped. I was scared because we were not able to create bonds with our fellow pupils and grow with them. I feared there would be a disconnect between the pre-pandemic pupils and the post-pandemic pupils, which would make it difficult for us to work together. However, the moment I stood in the theatre, those fears left. “We want to remind people who have forgotten what the performing arts is and the magic we create onstage and the unbreakable bonds we form. We are Milnerton High School and when the curtains open they will never close again. All I can say is, ‘bring it on’,” she said. Drama teacher Laura Bosman said when the Covid-19 pandemic hit, she had an idea of a tribute show of all their major productions since 2010. “For two years, we kept trying to get this idea off the ground. This year we decided to go for it. We want people to have a look back at some of the beautiful moments that we have made over the last 10 years and to be reminded that connection through music and performance brings us all together. “Productions are the most important thing that pupils will ever do. Sport is important, of course, but the bond, unity, fun and learning that is achieved through being in a production cannot be measured. “Many of our former pupils we interviewed as part of this show mention that being in the school production was the highlight of their high school career. They also mention that the friendships they made during this time endure till today and the life lessons they learnt have been invaluable,” she said. For more information, email: Lbosman@milnertonhigh.co.za.  Weekend Argus