Cape Town – A support system and self-defence session for gender-based victims has been established in Macassar as women are encouraged to break the chain of abuse. The strong message against tolerance of abuse in the name of love was shared during a programme hosted by the Yondla Abalambileyo Foundation at the Macassar Old Civic Centre. The event was aimed at equipping women with self-defence skills and empowering women with tactics to break away from any form of abuse in relationships.  The programme called “I am my Sister’s Keeper” was attended by 32 participants and guests. Among other topics, presenters touched on how to identify an abusive relationship, the red flags, manipulative behaviours, tolerance and to have financial freedom. Yondla Abalambileyo Foundation founder Auriel September said the programme would be followed by a series of self-defence sessions and support system expected to run in the next few months. “The programme was well received by the participants who ranges through all spheres of life, different ages.  “Some participants realised that they never knew that they in actual fact are victims of domestic violence.  “The self-defence part of the program we are not making public, because it will defeat the purpose, in the sense that we are giving victims tools to emancipate themselves from their abusers.  “There will be continuous self-defence sessions within the next few months to participants and a support system has been establish for victims.  “The oral feedback encourages us to continue,” September said. Gracelyn Martin, a survivor of gender-based violence (GBV), said the programme was an eye opener for her as it gave tips on how to silently fight the pandemic and safely escape without making the abuser suspicious.  She wished more women could take advantage of such initiatives. “GBV is not always physical, sometimes, like in my case, only the victims knows about it.  “No one believed when I spoke about it because it happened behind closed doors and the abuser was so smart that there wouldn’t be any evidence.  “But I knew I had to choose myself over our relationship.  “I was amazed to about secret plans to defend yourself without even making the abuser suspicious.  “The information shared at the event was out of ordinary and very vital to all women.  “I definitely look forward to participate in the upcoming sessions,” said Gravely. Natasha Stoffels, a presenter at the event said they wanted to uncomplicated the idea of defending and protecting yourself from abuse and having a safe escape.  It is all about applying your mind, planning and implementing.  It may not happen overnight but you'll be safe at the end of the day. There were various stakeholders involved including a bank that taught participants about financial freedom and helped them open accounts. Also, the Samaritan Feet South Africa pampered participants and donated shoes.  Weekend Argus