Cape Town – Growing up, Dan Mace always had stories to tell, however, he was socially awkward and could not tell them. Today he has conquered his anxiety and is a film-maker, director, YouTuber and entrepreneur. He is the founder of JOE, a film production company based in Cape Town which specialises in creative and narrative-driven content. Over his decade-long career Mace, who was born in Pinelands, has built an online following of more than 1.2 million people. He has focused on telling relevant stories in an entertaining and engaging way.  He recently made a YouTube video on beating load shedding. The video, which was shot in the back of a moving truck, tells the story of Mace moving around the city to access different power grids to stay connected to wi-fi from a mobile dongle so that he can complete a film in 24 hours – with no footage.  This meant he needed to use stock footage, record a voice-over, edit and add music. “This idea came from us dealing with six hours of load shedding every day. We have an inverter at the office so that we can keep working throughout the day, but it only lasts about an hour and doesn’t really have time to recharge before the next load-shedding cycle starts. “It was really affecting our productivity, and while we were sitting around the table having an ideation session someone mentioned something about ‘escaping load shedding’ or said something like ‘imagine you just run between zones with your laptop’. Then that idea developed into ‘why not make a studio on wheels that drives from area to area to maximise signal?’, because the cell signal in Cape Town becomes really bad during load shedding. “We got this truck, threw in some tables, generators and my laptop, then attempted to get from place to place to beat load shedding in one day. His take on load shedding: “I don’t know who to point the finger at and blame but I’d like to believe that South Africa is the greatest place in the world and it’s being sorted out and we all have to roll with the punches together.  “Maybe making a video like this could help shine a light on what’s happening in South Africa. More people around the world will be aware of it and maybe we can go from there,” he said. Mace, who has won a number of awards over years including three Young Director Awards at Cannes Lions, is working on his first feature-length documentary with Warner Bros Discovery. “This has always been a goal of mine. I didn’t know it was going to happen this soon in my career so I’m incredibly grateful. “There are two places where ideas come from: people and hard work. If you surround yourself with the right people, people that pose interesting questions, you are able to unlock doors in your mind that you didn’t even know you had the answer to,” he said. Friend and mentor Conn Bertish described Mace as a legendary storyteller, YouTuber and film-maker. “He is a globally unique storyteller who has pretty much created a hyper-relevant genre and style of film-making and storytelling that captures the attention of a new generation eager to interact and transform things for the better.  “Everyone should keep an eye on this guy, this is only the beginning for him.” Weekend Argus