A Cape Town-based film production house is furious after allegedly being short-changed by a Bollyhood media company. Africade Productions, which mostly specialises in filming travel-related reality TV series, says it is currently battling to recoup more than R4 million from Pippip Media, an Indian media company. The Cape Town production house has filmed nine seasons of The Amazing Race, and various similar formats. Africade Productions says it is owed R11.8m for the production, but has only received R7.7m so far. MTV India contracted Pippip Media to finish the show, who in turn contacted Africade Productions to bring the idea to life. The project in question is season 18 of MTV Roadies, which was made by Africade Productions and shot in South Africa. The filming was scheduled to last 38 days and involved 106 Indian and 50 South African crew members. However, with six days of filming left, Pippip Media withdrew from the project. The manufacturing was anticipated to cost R350 000 a day, or R11.2 million, over the course of 32 days. Owner of Africade Productions, Katrin Bohlender, said she was convinced they had planned to withdraw. “A week before the shoot, they started telling me about their cash flow issues when they were already in South Africa,” she said. “They were going crazy with the creative for the show, telling me they want a production that will cost R14 million when they only had R9 million,” she added. “I think they knew they couldn’t pay me more and thought they were going to get away with it.” Bohlender, whose partner is comedian Kurt Schoonrad, said although her husband had no involvement in the company, she took him to the meeting. “This is the first time in 20 years that I was panicking,” she said. She added: “Kurt and I have been together for 21 years. I’ve never taken him to a business meeting, but I had a gut feeling that it was going to go downhill.” Bohlender said that in the meeting, Pippip Media’s director, Joy Bhattacharya, promised her that money will not be an issue, as he had private funders that would cover the additional costs “After two hours of talking, they promised that they would pay me in weekly payments. At the time, I received only R4 million and I told them I need R2 million per week for the weeks to come, to run the production,” she said. “I explained to them that if the money wasn’t paid weekly, the production would come to a standstill. They said they would make sure they have the money,” she added. From that point, payment was received as agreed, but slowly started to falter, Bohlender said. “I started to receive R1 million, then R200 000, then R50 000, and [it] became incrementally smaller,” she said. Bohlender received the last instalment of the money owed to her on March 21, an amount of R200 000. She said the total due to Africade Productions, after the final reconciliation had been submitted to the clients, is R4 050 855. Africade Productions was responsible for everything the cast and crew needed from the time they landed in South Africa. The company picked up the bill for hotels, work permits, equipment, locations, filming permits, crew members and classic service production and facilitation. Bohlender, through her lawyer, Lester Timothy has since issued a summons at the High Court against Pippip Media. The summons has not been delivered yet.  When the Weekend Argus reached out to Pippip Media’s finance manager and director, Joy Bhattacharya and business partner Aritra Mukherjee, both said they had no comment. But they said Pippip Media has already made all relevant payments. Bohlender said her company has not received the final payment. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa