A Mitchells Plain teacher has been found guilty on four out of the five sexual charges lodged against him. Weekend Argus reported on the male teacher from Rocklands High School, in January after a former colleague at the school accused him of sexually harassing her. In an eight page statement the victim, described how in the few months that she worked at the school, she was allegedly continually harassed and violated by the teacher who was her superior. The incidents allegedly started two weeks after she began working at the school. The woman, 24, recalled how the accused asked her what her bra size she was and rubbed her stomach without her consent. “He would walk past me and rub his arm against my breasts. There were instances when I really felt violated, especially the time he asked me what bra size I wear and if he could see it and the time he put his fingers through the loopholes in my pants.” the victims statement read. The victim then left her job after becoming depressed. She told the Weekend Argus while awaiting the outcome of the investigation she found the courage to find a new teaching job. At the end of June, the victim was informed that the accused teacher had been found guilty of four of the five charges. The parties will have to wait until Friday, July 15, to submit aggravating and mitigating circumstances. Thereafter the presiding officer will decide on a sanction. The victim said she felt the overall process was handled fairly, even though it was traumatising to relive the moments that scarred her. “I didn't know the cross-questioning process would be so harsh on me. Even though I knew I was telling the truth, three hours of cross-questioning broke me a little bit. “ I was in a deeply depressive state when I attended the last hearing, especially knowing that he'd be in the room. “I wasn't taking care of myself properly, and barely even showered the day I attended the final hearing. I reached a point where I didn't care about my life, or my future.” said the victim. She said she even though she had been going through a healing process for months, she was suicidal at one point. “Even now, I am grateful that I'm employed, but it's a struggle for me to get up in the morning to go to work. I'm not anywhere near as passionate about education anymore, and I'd work in another field if I could. “I don't want to get close to another colleague enough for them to call me a friend. I've isolated myself a lot, in my personal and social life.” The woman said one thing she was thankful for was that the teacher was found guilty. “The horrible feeling  going to the proceedings was worth it. “Not only does it validate my experience publicly, but it is a win for all women who have experienced something similar.” She said she hoped her story encouraged other women to speak out against their abusers. “My advice for all younger female teachers who have experienced something similar is to make noise.  “Report and demand that something is done. And when you experience backlash from whoever supports the perpetrator in your case, just know that it's because they are afraid of how it will affect their reputation. “We are so used to the culture of silence when it comes to gender-based violence, because we are shamed when we finally speak out. It isn't our shame to carry; it's theirs.” A parent who also stood up against the accused teacher said she was filled with mixed emotions when hearing about the verdict. “On the one hand I'm so relieved that hopefully he will never be near children again and on the other hand furious that it took so long to discover this man is guilty. It's scary to think that he thought it was okay to behave in this manner. Thank God the truth has been revealed.” Bronagh Hammond, a spokesperson for the Western Cape Department of Education, said while the disciplinary hearing was under way, they could not comment. Kerry Mauchline, spokesperson for Western Cape Education MEC for Education David Maynier said since last year 34 teachers were being investigated for sexual misconduct of which 19 were for sexual assault and 15 for harassment. To date, nine sexual assault cases, one sexual relationship with a pupil and nine sexual harassment cases were still being investigated. The remaining 15 cases resulted in six teachers being found guilty and three of them dismissed for sexual assault.