Cape Town - He is a kisser and a charmer. His name is Ponzo and he is the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa’s (AWS) beloved mascot. His story is a real rags-to-riches tale of triumph over disaster, and joy over despair. About a year ago, the AWS received a call about a scrawny little puppy who was sighted on the premises of WBHO Construction in Philippi. His coat is light brown, like a lion’s, but with touches of black and white. His heart is just as big as that of the king of beasts and he will capture your heart by looking at you with dark brown eyes filled with love. “He was faint, just curled up in the rain without any shelter. It was only my first month working at the Animal Welfare Society of SA and I couldn’t resist not saving this pup. I immediately dispatched one of our inspectors. The inspector returned with this little puppy, wrapped up in a blanket. He was skinny, soaking wet and seemed very faint. We immediately ran some tests for parvovirus and Ehrlichia. He, sadly, tested positive for both,” said AWS inspectorate controller Shannon-Lee Beukes. The little fellow struggled to eat and there were a number of times when it looked as if he wouldn’t make it. At the society they took turns syringe-feeding him, staying up to par with his treatment and giving him some extra love and cuddles. “A few weeks down the line he made a miraculous recovery when he first started wagging his tail and eating on his own. Day by day he made progress and never stopped wagging his tail. Ponzo has grown to be such an amazing and free-spirited dog. He is known for the Doggy Kissing Booth, and yes, he sure does it like a pro. "He flaunts his handsomeness like it’s no one’s business. He is a true hero to many patients who come into our care who, in most cases, have endured a life of hardship, and struggle and have seen the ugly side of humans. He brings people right out of their shell and they honestly find it easy to let their guard down around him and just be a dog,” said Beukes. She is set to adopt Ponzo soon and promises to bring him to work every day because she believes she has truly found her soulmate. AWS spokesperson Allan Perrins said that it is true every great team has a mascot that makes them instantly recognisable, distinguishes them from the rest, helps elevate their brand and, most importantly, brings their organisation to life “When it came to deciding on a mascot that personifies our values, we were not willing to settle on some kitsch caricature. We wanted something that everyone could instantly relate to and, much like ourselves, be a symbol of love and hope, so the obvious choice was an adorable rescue puppy named Ponzo who has become synonymous with the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa.” I still vividly recall the first time Shannon saw Ponzo. Their bond was instant and forever. Shannon had found her best friend and Ponzo his soulmate. I am convinced that this extraordinary bond helped save his life and set the wheels in motion for Shannon to excel at her tough job as inspectorate controller,” said Perrins. He described Ponzo as the epitome of man’s best friend. “His love is selfless and unconditional and he has helped a lot of animals to overcome their unthinkable pasts. Ponzo is a pet with a purpose. He is a great therapy dog, so how can we not reward the inestimable amount of good he does and the great cause he represents?” said Perris. Nursing Assistant Jaque le Roux said helping to save Ponzo’s life was his duty and privilege. “It took a massive effort to pull him back from the brink of death. His recovery was fraught with ups and downs but as with all of our challenging patients, we persisted and prevailed. Being able to shake his paw at his first birthday party on the June 3 (where he performed all of his party tricks) made me proud to have been a part of his recovery and honoured to be a member of the amazing Animal Welfare Society of South Africa.” The AWS CEO and vice-chairperson had only good things to say about Ponzo. “He loves kissing both and will jump on the chair and sit like a person. His health is perfect now and he just has a love for people and animals.” If people want to meet Ponzo, pay a visit to AWS for full-on kisses.