Cape Town - Parents of six schools in the Worcester and Winelands community and other organisations are calling for financial audits and proper management of schools which they claim are poorly administered and which face claims of abuse. Yesterday, a memorandum was to be handed over to the district director at the Western Cape District Office in Worcester. But the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) confirmed that the memorandum was not handed over and that they had gained insight into their grievances. Parents for Equal Education, however, said the parties wanted to hand the document to the district director himself, who was apparently not present. This was confirmed by Vanessa le Roux of Parents for Equal Education. In the document, the group listed their grievances, including calling for the suspension of Juan Benjamin, the district director. The document was also sent to the media. The WCED said this would not be the way forward and they would consider whether there were any interventions needed. You For Transparency and Democracy said the schools and administration which they had raised concerns about in their memorandum included Breede Valley School of Skills, Vusisizwe Secondary School, Nuwe Hoop Sentrum (Special Need School), Langerug School (Special Need School), Avian Park Primary School, Winelands Primary School and District Office Cape Winelands (WCED).  Isaac Thabile, co-ordinator of You For Transparency and Democracy, said: “We the parents of the above-mentioned schools want to place on record our dissatisfaction with the way you as the director, the circuit manager, the principals and some teachers, who are responsible for the poor management of some schools in the Breede Valley region and your inability to resolve the chaos in our schools.” They claimed at Breede Valley School of Skills there were no qualifications, no curriculum and no qualification outcome for learners and that the school governing body provided poor and weak management and had no plans in place for the school. They further claimed that the budget and the finances of the school was done once a year and that meetings only lasted 15 minutes. They said in the memorandum: “We are still waiting for a copy of the school budget and hostel budget. “We demand a full and independent forensic investigation to be done at the school as a matter of urgency.” At Vusisizwe Secondary School, they claimed that there was also corruption of finances and that a forensic investigation was needed. At Nuwe Hoop Sentrum (Special Need School) they called for the forensic reports of 2015/2016 and 2018/ 2019, which they claimed were still outstanding, and said that the school had four bank accounts. They made further accusations of abuse at a certain school where girls were ill-treated. At Langerug School (Special Need School) they alleged that racism was rife, while at Avian Park Primary School they called for the Xhosa language to be maintained as a subject at the school. The document states: “Parents are very unhappy about the school’s decision to phase out the Xhosa language at the school. The result of such a decision means that the 40% Xhosa-speaking learners will not be taught in their mother tongue language any more. It means also that they must now attend schools in Zweletemba, which is almost 20km away from Avian Park. “We demand that the rights of learners to be taught in their mother tongue language must be upheld and the school’s decision to phase out the Xhosa language must be reversed.” They said Winelands Primary School’s finances and expenditure were a concern as was the management of the SGB. The added that the District Office Cape Winelands (WCED) lacked communication and that the director was never available, calling for his suspension. Bronagh Hammond of the WCED said the contents of the memorandum where issues were raised were investigated and some were still pending. “WCED did not receive the memorandum from the group – they refused to hand it over,” she said. “However, we have seen what we believe to be a draft of the memorandum handed to us by the media early this morning. “Should the contents of the memorandum be the same, then I can report that all of the issues raised have either been investigated or are currently under investigation. “The claims that the district has not dealt with the concerns raised are unfounded. “The claims that the district office is inaccessible are also open to interpretation. We are aware that one of the protesters demanded to see the district director last week, to which he was not available, which is certainly no reason to claim that the district is not accessible. “Regarding whether we are suspending the district director, the answer is no. We will study the contents of the memorandum – once received – and determine whether there are any interventions that still require attention.” Weekend Argus