Cape Town - The local basketball community received a training session with renowned US basketball coach Tom Mott at the Hangberg Sport Centre in Hout Bay yesterday. The coach from California’s St Joseph High School spent the afternoon coaching the Hout Bay Hurricanes Basketball Club with the aim to inspire players that basketball is more than just a sport. Mott has 20 years’ experience in the sport. His visit was organised through an initiative along with the Cape Town Basketball Association Coaching and Development Commission. He said: “It was my first time there and I was impressed by the attentiveness, desire to learn and discipline of the players. Unlike in the States where we are a little bit more structured, with financial resources going to basketball, in South Africa the sport only gets the scrap of what is left from soccer, cricket and rugby, but has great potential with such dedicated players.” He is on a trip along with his vacation student who will be staying a month in Johannesburg and another in Cape Town. Craig Daniels, the Cape Town Basketball Association Coaching and Development Commission head, said this was a meaningful opportunity.  “It means a lot to the basketball community when a foreign coach comes in. It brings hope to the juniors that while basketball is truly an international game, how they practise and develop overseas is no different to how we do it. “Ultimately, our level of basketball compared to the US comes down to opportunity. The more opportunities we have to play and compete, the better we will become. Coach Mott coaches a high school in the US. In their school basketball season, they would play 80 games. You would struggle to find any sport in South Africa that plays so many games in a season. That is what we should be striving for. It has its challenges economically, infrastructure and administration. But that is what we need to overcome. “While it is a game that the players love, it could also be an opportunity to get a bursary to a good high school, or to go to a tertiary institution. Basketball could be a means to get an education, or to travel to various places in South Africa or in the world,” said Daniels. Roscoe Jacobs, the Hurricanes’ secretary, said it was exciting to learn that Mott was in the city and knew it wasn’t an opportunity to miss and so they invited him.  “Mott, we are eternally grateful as such opportunities are not easy to come by. The players were very excited. Our club is under-resourced and is struggling financially. We need to use the sport to not only win games on the court, but to overcome struggles faced in our communities. Our club motto is making a difference one dribble at a time.” One of the players, Decklin Liebenberg, 16, said the session with Mott was an amazing and inspirational experience. “His coaching skills and talk are so inspirational that it made me believe that I can become a professional basketball player one day. The little he gave made the biggest difference in my basketball-playing skills.” Weekend Argus