Cape Town - Community leaders are appealing for help for the parents of the three children who perished in a fire in Wesbank at the weekend as they need DNA testing to be done before their bodies can be released. At least 59 people have been affected by the fatal fire which claimed the lives of Luciana Mckwena, 4, Lenna Mckwena, 9, and Bruce Mckwena, 11 months old, on Saturday in Baxley Crescent. It was reported that the siblings were found holding one another under the debris. While the family and community leaders are preparing for their burial, they will need to fork out at least R1 300 per child for DNA testing as the children were burnt beyond recognition. City Fire and Rescue spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said the fire scene had been handed over to the police. “During firefighting operations the bodies of the children were discovered in one of the informal structures. Several informal structures were completely destroyed and two formal houses were damaged. The scene was subsequently handed over to the SAPS.” Community activists Lindy Jacobs, Jason Stephens and Pastor Hilton Davids and many others have been at the fire scene trying to assist the devastated family and neighbours who were affected by the fire. “We managed to arrange clothing for some children and nappies as that is still a need, and Gift of the Givers gave blankets and Balls Not Guns brought food and Woman's Voice also donated food. We received donations of clothing. “The family is still struggling, the mother needs to pay for DNA tests because the children burnt beyond recognition. “There are so many families who are affected by this fire and even a girl in matric, she lost all of her books and clothes. The pastors in the community are also assisting “This  is such a tragedy, that many are now having to live in one wendy house to accommodate others. “There are 59 people affected and these people are living in people’s backyards. “They had to rescue a woman through a small window to get her out of the window. “On Saturday when I arrived on the scene, it was too sad to see that fire scene and those children. “There are three minors who are deceased now. “We do need people to start speaking where the families of these children were, these children were screaming out to them.” Davids told “Weekend Argus” that the affected families were in need of building material and had rushed to help the victims during the blaze. “The one structure is behind my home and I had to jump in to help that family,” he said. “What the families do need is building material, such as roof sheets and wooden beams, so they can start to rebuild their homes and their lives.” Stephens said most of the funeral preparations were under way but that the mother had the task of identifying her children via DNA testing. “The mother has been requested to do the DNA testing before the bodies can be released.” If you can assist please contact Jacobs at 065 891 5532 or Stephens at 072 677 07611. Weekend Argus