Cape Town - A young woman, her partner and their dog were rescued by a team of mountain hiking rescuers after they were stung by a swarm of bees. The drama unfolded on Sunday when The Hikers Network and Ubuntu set out to hike Paradyskloof. Along the trial, they noticed a frantic woman coming in their direction. Her dog had collapsed on the trail near her and she was covered in bee stings. Anwaaz Bent, who is the president of the @SafetyMountain Tracking of the Hikers Network also noticed that the dog had bee stings. The woman managed to tell the team that her male friend had also been stung by the bees and was further up the trail. Bent immediately jumped into action with the teams and radioed for help as he could see that all on the trail needed medical attention. At the time the dog was losing consciousness and the team placed him in a stretcher and went out searching for the male on the trail. “Both her and the dog were covered in bee stings. The dog and the lady needed urgent medical attention and reported to us that her male friend was high up at the waterfall also stung by bees. I called Metro control immediately. We calmed the woman down and started to assist her. “I sent hike leaders and rescue members to locate her male friend, get his position and assist. “I then asked Metro for permission to carry out the dog and assist the female they said we could move. We had a few hike leaders as well as our Bishop Lavis Enviro youth,” he said. Bent said all role players worked together in the vital moments: “The females in our team played a vital role in calming the woman. “The group then moved off and myself and Ubuntu hiking members responded to the male patient on trail. “He was soon found stabilised, kept warm, covered and information was relayed to Metro Control.” In a matter of moments, paramedics arrived, including a medical helicopter, while the woman and her dog were to be transported via an ambulance. “On arrival the paramedic further treated the patient and felt it was best to get Skymed. Soon the patient was airlifted out. “Meanwhile, our other team had already extracted the woman and dog to an awaiting ambulance,” he said. Bent said in all of his years of experience, it was his first encounter with bees attacking hikers. “I am so proud of everyone on our team. Our leaders and rescue members, well done as well as the youth from Bishop Lavis we all made a difference today and it's the core of why we are known all over in terms of our commitment to our groups and trail users to keep them safe and assist,” he said. Bent added that both the dog and the couple were medically treated and were on their way to recovery and doing well. Clint September, of Ubuntu Hiking and a member of Hikers Network and Rescuer told Weekend Argus they had been prepared for any emergency and could do preliminary assistance of keeping the patient warm and calm before medical teams arrived.  “Ubuntu Hiking and Hikers Network members was training for the Boland overnight in paradyskloof while this incident happened. “I was leading this hike. As I am also part of the Hikers Network Rescue, we always hike with our full rescue and hiking kit. “My fellow members and I were able to keep the patient calm and warm before the paramedics arrived. Our role at that time was to assist the medic and help the patient. “When more help arrived, we assisted with the airlift on the ground by keeping other hikers safe when Skymed arrived. “We can say we were on trail at the right place at the right time. “This was a team effort and well done to all involved,” he said. In a statement by Air Mercy Service (AMC) and the Western Cape Health Department they said while the couple had been saved after been attacked by a swarm of bees they had a busy day with rescues, reporting one death. “Sadly early this (Sunday) morning the rescue helicopter was dispatched for another body recovery on Table Mountain. “Shortly after returning to base, the rescue helicopter was dispatched to Stellenbosch to airlift a patient who had been attacked by a swarm of bees. “While busy on this rescue another mountain call came in. “The rescue helicopter was dispatched yet again to Chapman's Peak to extract injured hikers. “Our sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of the deceased, our thoughts and prayers are with you. “We wish all the injured hikers a speedy recovery.“ Weekend Argus