Cape Town - Trade union experts and members of the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) have warned that the organised labour movement was on the brink of a “split”. On Saturday, the Labour Court in Johannesburg stopped Numsa from holding its planned national congress that was set for next week in Cape Town where a new leadership was expected to be elected. This was following an urgent court case heard on Friday where Numsa's second deputy president, Ruth Ntlokotse and other suspended officials sought an interdict against the union leaders. Ntlokotse is among more than 50 members, that include regional leaders and office bearers have been suspended and will face disciplinary action for alleged misconduct. Ntlokotse, who is also president of the SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) is one of the suspended members who were set to contest leadership positions. “All these suspensions are just a tactic to derail democratic processes.  “The timing of the suspensions, just before the congress, also raises a lot of questions,” said Ntlokotse. The court on Saturday also found suspensions unconstitutional, invalid and unenforceable in law. “Numsa is interdicted and restrained from proceeding with the 11th National Congress scheduled to take place on 25-29 July 2022, until it fully complies with the terms of its own constitution,” read the judgement. After “rising” in 2013 from major crises including the Marikana massacre and the De Doorns farmworkers’ strike, the largest union in the country is once again faced with serious problems. Today former members and staff of the union are expected to hold a media conference in Johannesburg to voice dissatisfaction with the “unprecedented challenges” in the union  Political writer and analyst Dr Ebrahim Harvey also questioned the suspensions.  “The timing of the suspensions appears to be purposefully meant to deal a blow to some officials who were going to stand for elections at the congress. “As unfortunate as a split will be in Saftu (Numsa’s mother body), there are strong indications that it is inevitable.  “Judging by the determination of (Irvin) Jim that the latest suspensions occur and those officials be dealt with,” he said. Suspended Western Cape regional secretary Vuyo Lukhele said the union was at “its weakest” since it joined Saftu shortly after leaving Cosatu, under the leadership of Jim. “A split is imminent.  “There are guys pushing for it, and those who have been suspended have been pushing back and I have observed that some right-wing elements have tried to capture the organisation since 2018,” said Lukhele. He said the motive behind the slew of suspensions was to shut outspoken members out of the conference because they were “a threat to the status quo”. The majority of suspended members were from five of its nine regions and included the Eastern Cape, Western Cape, Sedibeng, Ekurhuleni and Mpumalanga. According to Ntlokotse, the Mpumalanga region, which will not attend the conference, was crucial and would have “swayed the balance of forces” within the congress. At the centre of the challenges faced by the union are allegations that Jim was becoming “authoritarian”. “I’ve expressed different views from Jim, and so have other suspended comrades, and we have been accused of co-co-ordinating divisions within the union,” said Lukhele. The union has also been hit with allegations of financial mismanagement, factionalism, and lack of accountability to its members. Lukhele said the suspended members consistently raised concerns over Numsa’s investment company, which is owned by the National Manufacturing Workers Investment Trust. He said millions of rands in dividends were never paid back to  the union, and were instead allegedly given to Numsa individuals and structures. The union’s 3Sixty Life – a life insurance company owned by the trust – was also placed under curatorship in December.  Numsa is challenging the decision. Harvey said the allegations against the union were very serious and the reaction of the leadership was, “false, misleading and a digression”, when it accused the media of having an agenda to stir factional divisions within the union, without addressing them. Some union members also voiced concerns that the alleged “acrimonious” relationship between Saftu general secretary, Zwelinzima Vavi and Jim was also a crisis for Numsa. According to Harvey, the relationship had compromised the unity between the two.  “The differences and tensions have been allowed to continue for years with debilitating effects on Saftu because the control of the rank and file has been increasingly compromised over the years. “It is Jim and Vavi who appear to control what happens or does not happen in both Numsa and Saftu.  “The rank and file have been reduced to passive bystanders,” said Harvey. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola, said the issues around 3Sixty Life and investment company were not on the agenda of the now interdicted conference. “Congress is about elections and resolutions and whatever else delegates want to discuss because congress is the highest decision making body of the union,” said Hlubi-Majola She also denied the allegations about 3Sixty Life and said the union’s opposition to the curatorship was justified as it would also impact other companies owned by the union.  Hlubi-Majola said the 700 conference delegates were set to discuss issues faced by members in the energy, transport and aviation sectors including the impact of climate change and Eskom energy crisis on workers’ jobs. In a press release posted on the union’s Facebook page, the allegations  by the suspended members were denied and Ntlokotse was accused of spreading “malicious and mischievous” propaganda. In a letter to the regional office bearers, Jim said the decision to suspend them was based on the “disruption” that took place at the Saftu conference. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said the union’s “ground has shifted” a lot at a time when a strong trade union movement was needed. “The trade union movement has become weaker and is no longer able to protect workers’ interests,” said Mathekga. Weekend Argus