THE work of thousands of community members to revitalise Princess Vlei will be documented in a film to highlight the restoration of the wetland.  It was originally inspired by local resident Kelvin Cochrane who had a project to restore the fynbos in 2008. It was named “Dressing the Princess” and the documentary – under the same name – has brought together the local community.  Princess Vlei is the gateway to the wetland system that runs through Grassy Park and was was declared a provincial heritage site in October.  The film, which is to be released by the production company, ReWild Africa, seeks to drive support to the community conservation work led by the Princess Vlei Forum. ReWild Africa is a production company that exists to shed light on solutions to ecological restoration. The forum’s Emma Oliver said: "This project has involved thousands of community members, school children, artists, singers, botanists, environmentalists, freshwater ecologists, religious leaders and many others.  “The first victory for the project was pressurising the City to abandon long-standing plans for a shopping mall on site in 2014. It has continued to be a vibrant community-led effort ever since.” ReWild Africa is collaborating with Denish Anand and Alex Lansdowne. They are co-producers to strengthen the impact of the film. It seeks to gain support for the community conservation work led by Princess Vlei Forum. Anand, an environmental activist and educator, told Weekend Argus she was passionate about the project.  “We need to rehabilitate our eco-system,” Anand said.  “The rehabilitation of eco-systems is very connected to the rehabilitation and restoration of communities… It’s something I’m very passionate about.” She added: “We can’t have the rehab of the one without the other. And I wanted to showcase the importance of this vlei.” Anand said conservation throughout the city and many regions of the world has been dominated by colonial ways of thinking, involving the separation of humans and nature, where communities are removed from their land and excluded from decision-making.  Although there is no release date yet, the film, is being directed by Canadian film director ReWild Africa Carter Kirilenko. Those behind the documentary are optimistic that it will be released before the beginning of next year.  Kirilenko told Weekend Argus: “We’re inspired by the work of the countless community members who have built a successful model of community conservation in order to restore the biodiversity within Princess Vlei.” He added: “We’re excited to showcase the diverse number of voices involved in this initiative and we hope that our film will raise awareness and drive support to the community conservation projects led by Princess Vlei Forum...The documentary has been made possible by a global community of supporters through a crowdfunding campaign.” Weekend Argus.