Cape Town - Cape Town-born Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis’ latest win at the Women’s African Cup of Nations (Wafcon), is as much a victory for the community she comes from as it is for the country. Ellis made history last weekend when she became the first coach to lead South Africa to Wafcon success against Morocco. Ellis grew up in Salt River and it was there that she was exposed to the sport she would later devote her life to. Over the years, she dedicated time to meeting and encouraging the young women who are a part of the Blackpool Football Club in Salt River. Razia Maarman and Basheerah Esmael are two young soccer players who are grateful for the motivation Ellis has given them. Maarman, 15, is from Mitchells Plain and has played for Blackpool for the last two years. The young midfielder said she was inspired by Ellis’ ability to never give up on her dreams. “I will never forget when she told me that training is something that happens every day, not only when the team meets for training,” she said. “Desiree went from being a good soccer player to being the coach of the year representing our country and that inspires me the most,” she added. “She taught me that staying true to myself is what is going to help me progress in the game. It doesn’t matter where I come from.” Athlone resident, Esmael, 14, is a former Blackpool player who said: “I saw that she was passionate about soccer at a very young age, I saw myself in her.” “She didn’t have a girl's team to play for when she started playing soccer, so she played for a boys team. The same happened to me.  “What stood out to me is that it never hindered her progress in the game, and that encouraged me to think the same way. She taught me how important it is to balance all aspects of my life, to be a better player.” Esmael said seeing Ellis and her team win last weekend was a turning point for her. “I realised that one day I can also achieve great things and maybe even play for Banyana Banyana,” she added. Desiree's mother, Natalie Ellis, said it warmed her heart to see her daughter inspiring young women in football. “Giving back to the community you came from is what this is all about. When you receive, you must give back,” she said. The 78-year-old was beaming with pride for her daughter. “We give God all the glory for Desiree’s success. She deserves it all,” she said. “I don’t think that Desi ever expected it to end like this. She loves the game and has always played for the love of the game.” “When she started playing soccer many years ago, money was not even a factor. She played because she loved it.” Natalie said that people had been knocking on her door non-stop this week. “Everyone came to say how proud they are of Desi and how happy they are for her. It hasn’t stopped,” she said. Natalie’s late husband and Desiree’s dad, Ernest, died 35 years ago. Natalie said the minute Desiree’s team won, she thought of how much her father would have loved to see that moment. “Desiree used to play soccer in the streets after school. My husband used to coach the Athlone Celtic team,” she said The proud mom said her husband never believed in losing. “He had a winning spirit and Desi inherited that from him because she also does not believe in losing,” she said. “We raised our children to go for the best and to never settle for less.” Natalie recalls how nervous her daughter was was when she was named Banyana Banyana head coach four years ago. Prior to this, Ellis had managed the team on an interim basis since 2016 after former coach Vera Pauw. “I told her to reach out to every player on her team, to visit them at home and get to know them and their families,” she said. “Desi is not only their coach, that team is a family. She’s like their mom, friend and sister,” she added. Desiree's younger brother, Bassier Ellis, is the coach of the Blackpool. "She has always been the role model that we've all aspired to. I don't know what we would have been without her," he said. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa