Cape Town - There the one moment; gone the next. Prepaid electricity customers using meter boxes, supplied by both Eskom and the City of Cape Town, say their units mysteriously disappear during load-shedding.  The customers told the Weekend Argus that when the electricity is restored, units return lower than they were when load-shedding was implemented. “I have not recorded it, but I noticed,” said Laurentia Martin. “My electricity is supplied by Eskom, my daughter by the City. She too experienced this during load-shedding.” She said she was wondering how long had this been happening. “I do not lose a big number. It’s probably around 10 units, but it is something, given how bad our economy is performing; electricity is expensive.” Another City-supplied customer said she noticed the same thing and promised to make a video next time to provide as proof. “Something is definitely wrong here, but I am not paying attention. We are losing units when the electricity is restored and someone is benefiting from all this.” The country has again been forced to endure blackouts as power utility Eskom’s woes continue. Currently, load-shedding has been suspended. Councillor Beverley van Reenen, Mayco member for energy, said it was a near impossibility for a working meter to lose units due to load-shedding specifically. “The City would have to get the consumption reading on the meter and subtract the purchased units, which would equal the units remaining. The unit’s remaining figure has to be the same as what is currently on the meter. If this does not balance, the meter is faulty.” She adds that prepaid meters are designed to measure consumption relative to the load connected and decrement based on its calibration. “It has a memory where it stores the units left on the meter in the case where the meter is disconnected and will display this when the meter is energised. Hence, no units will be lost in the case of disconnection/reconnection.” Van Reenen said customers could report if they suspected that their meters were faulty. When one disputes the accuracy of a meter and applies to test and calibrate the meter, a fee is charged. This fee is refunded if the meter is found to be out of specification. Meanwhile, Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha said it was not possible to provide a blanket response to this claim. “Eskom would require the evidence and deal with each claim individually.  “If any customer has furnished you with any evidence that might assist Eskom to verify the claim, I would appreciate you forwarding it to me at mediadesk@eskom.co.za for an investigation.” Asked whether they would compensate customers if they can prove their units disappeared during load-shedding, he said: “I don’t see why Eskom wouldn’t compensate such a customer once the claim has been proven to be valid.” Weekend Argus