FORMER rugby world cup champion Tendai “Beast” Mtawarira is loving life after hanging up his cleats to pursue business interests, spend time with family and more recently – sharpening his skills in the kitchen.  The award winning former Springbok icon retired in 2019 and has since established his own security firm, was named the Forbes Africa 2021 list of 100 most influential Africans, joined international management agency Roc Nation Sports headed by Hip Hop mogul Jay Z and became the regional brand ambassador for home appliance company, Electrolux. Mtawarira, 36, spoke to Weekend Argus about his work and what comes next after an illustrious sports career.  “Playing professional rugby for 13 years has been a rewarding sports career and representing the Springboks winning squad that brought home the 2019 Rugby World Cup was the highlight of that journey,” he said. He added that he also has peace of mind knowing that his business interests, development foundation and brand are in good hands with Roc Nation. Mtawarira also swapped his rugby jersey to step into the corporate world as CEO of Umlindi Security, which he founded as a part of the Fidelity Services Group. This was after another former Springbok star Wahl Bartmann, CEO of Fidelity Services Group, acted as a business mentor to Mtawarira. When he’s not busy pursuing his entrepreneurial, charity and global business interests, Mtawarira is at home where he loves spending quality time with his wife Kuziva and children Talumba and Wangu. He can often be found in the back yard of his Ballito home kicking a ball around with his children. “If I am not shooting hoops or kicking the ball around the yard with my children, you might be surprised to find me in the kitchen chasing my latest love interest – cooking for dinner parties for family and friends. “I felt privileged that I was able to retire healthy after that season and focus my energy on the next chapter of my life – my gorgeous wife and children and my security business, while still having time to fulfil my other passion,” Mtawarira concluded.