Police need your help in identifying two men found murdered under a bridge in Parow earlier this week. The bodies were found wrapped in blankets in Cloete Street on Monday. The victims had several stab wounds. Police spokesperson, Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said paramedics on the scene had carried out the certification of death. “Police members of the Anti Gang Unit are seeking the assistance of the public to identify the bodies of two unknown males found under a bridge in Parow. “Both victims were declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. “Anyone who can assist with information that can assist with the investigation is kindly requested to call the investigation officer Sergeant Bradley Schuurman on 071 673 3841 or alternatively call Crime Stop on 08600 10111.” Meanwhile, Western Cape MEC for Police Oversight and Community Safety Reagen Allen, said their goal was to reduce the murder rate by fifty percent in the province by 2029, focusing on hotspots. “Between 4 April 2022 and 3 July 2022, Law Enforcement Advancement Plan (LEAP) officers have been tackling crime head-on in the 14 police precincts where they are deployed. “These officers are deployed where they can make the biggest difference in turning around negative crime statistics, including in our top 10 murder areas in the Western Cape.  “This includes Delft, Gugulethu, Harare, Khayelitsha (Site B policing precinct), Kraaifontein, Mfuleni, Mitchells Plain, Nyanga, Philippi East, and Samora Machel. Other high crime areas in which they are deployed are Atlantis, Bishop Lavis and Hanover Park, and recently Lavender Hill, Steenberg and Grassy Park. “The consistent efforts of the LEAP officers and being the extra boots on the ground, demonstrates the importance of visible policing. “This is one of the most effective methods in combating crime, particularly murder, which is the primary focus area of the LEAP deployment. “The confiscation of the various weapons ensures that fewer people could potentially be harmed by guns, while the removal of drugs helps ensure that our people do not get addicted to illicit substances that leads to various crimes, including committing murder. “I’ve heard and seen in many communities how requests are made to deploy LEAP in their areas. “These requests clearly shows that LEAP is visible and having an impact in crime prevention and detection. We have a long way to go, especially since our ultimate goal is to reduce the murder rate by 50% by 2029,” the MEC said. Weekend Argus