Cape Town - A 56-year-old unemployed, deaf mom from Hout Bay has found a unique way to gives back to the community - by offering free Yoga sessions to recovering addicts and others. Busiswa Qobo hosts hour long free sessions at the Hangberg Dreams Rehabilitation Centre and the Hout Bay Community Centre.  She learned and mastered the art in the early 2000s in India. Qobo said there she learned the multiple benefits of yoga for individuals and society. "It gives me pleasure being able to help where I can as we all have experienced life in different ways. Practising yoga is more than just poses and breathing. There are topics such as self-love, truthfulness, commitment and balance that can be tackled in sessions. "I always remind my students to be conscious of their emotions during yoga as I believe that if not released, emotions get stored in the body. I tell them to treat themselves with compassion and discipline as yoga resonates with their inner self, and can be liberating," explained Qobo. Adding to the benefits, she said, yoga can even help one to connect spiritually, and regular practise strengthens abdominal and body muscles, and improves lung capacity. One of the beneficiaries, Shantel Coetzee said the sessions helps her calm down from her anger issues and relaxes her body. She thanked Qobo and the centre for their, "thoughtful ideas to help us regain ourselves and explore life. I always had a busy schedule and never took yoga seriously until I got to the rehab two years ago. Then my mindset changed, I loved it, I never miss a session with this amazing lady." Mornay Ras, manager at Hangberg Dreams, said Qobo's sessions fitted perfectly with the concept of the centre, and yoga sessions had proven effective in the healing process. He said 40 people at the centre had benefited from doing yoga. The unemployed mother of one, started offering paid sessions in 2005 but times became tough over the years and domestic work became her only means of living. She had no time to indulge her passion until 2017, when she lost her domestic job and returned to serving the community, with both free and paid sessions until the Covid-19 outbreak. She now survives from doing domestic work a few times a week.