Cape Town - A local table tennis player from Nyanga in Cape Town will be aiming for the stars as she prepares to represent South Africa at the International Table Tennis Federation African Youth, Junior and Cadet Championships in Tunisia. Anande Kuse was selected to be part of the SA Table Tennis Board U19 girls’ team. Her trip began on July 14 when she flew to a camp in Pretoria in preparation for her departure next Tuesday.  Raised by her unemployed grandmother and the first in her family to get a tertiary education, Kuse hopes to make it to the top 16 and dreams of becoming a woman's champion one day so she can be an inspiration to children from similar backgrounds. "I’m looking forward to being in the top 16 as it is not that easy to compete against other countries. I was very happy when I found out I made it to the national team. I really deserve it as I’ve worked hard, training on a regular basis. “And this is an opportunity that will open doors for me, where I can apply for a sports bursary at any institution and try to get a job where I would teach children how to play table tennis.  The first-year film production student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology juggles her daily training with her studies. She said this was a fulfilment of her childhood dream as she started playing table tennis at the age of 13 at Walter Teka Primary and later at Sithembele Matiso High School. "In my primary school, I was known as the sport lady because I would participate in every new sport until table tennis was introduced. I wanted to give it a try, and I just fell in love with it. My role model is Kurt Lingerveld.“ Kuse thanked her coaches and family for their continuous support. Her coach, Kelvin Smith, described her as an energetic and disciplined player with a drive to succeed. "She doesn't just like the sport, but she loves it. She always strives to be better to an extent that during Covid-19, she'd contact me to find out about training. I had to take a board to her where she could at least train and coach children from her community. We missed out on two years of training, but she came back stronger. I believe she can make it to the top 10, not easily, but with her drive, anything is possible.” Her aunt, Anelisa Kuse, said: “Anande doesn't cease to amaze us. She didn't let our struggles to stop her from achieving her dreams. This sport is the reason she's at varsity and is travelling the world. We are proud of her and wish her only the best. She's fulfilling my late mom's dreams to see her flourish one day. Unfortunately, she passed before she could see these achievements, but I am sure she's watching over us with pride."