Cape Town - The family of a woman who vanished 25 years ago after leaving her hometown on a truck to Johannesburg is praying she is still alive. Margaret Solomons was 18 when she left her three-month-old daughter with a church member in De Doorns and boarded a truck to Joburg. It has now been more than two decades that she’s been missing. Solomons now has a granddaughter whom she has never met. Solomons’ sister, Elizabeth Fredies said they were hopeful that she was still alive, and were also looking for closure if she had passed away. She said the five siblings had been placed into foster care and moved to Mitchells Plain at a young age. “When I was just five-years-old my mother was murdered in front of my little sister, and my dad had died before that. “Margaret was 18 when I last saw her, I was just 13 at the time,” she said. Fredies said an eye-witness who had seen her board the truck has since also died, but they had received information that Solomons could be somewhere in Joburg. “We were raised by foster parents and Margie fell pregnant when she was 18-years-old. “She had been mistreated by her foster parents and when her baby was three-months-old she left the child with a church member and left for De Doorns where we were born. “The person who last saw her said she had gotten into a truck and there was a male driver and that the truck was driving to Johannesburg,” she said. Fredies said in later years they began taking care of Solomons’ daughter who is now unfortunately addicted to drugs. “She has never seen her daughter grow up or met her granddaughter,” said Fredies. Fredies said she began a search for her sister at local government offices to inquire whether she was married or employed or had accounts registered in her name. “I had the government system check if she had any work history or accounts that were opened and registered on her name or even property but nothing reflected as I still have her identity book,” she said. Fredies said as one of the youngest in the family she is making it her quest to find her sister. “We just want closure, if she is alive or if she perhaps passed away. “A member of the community who had been in Johannesburg five years ago claimed Margie had approached her and asked if she knew her family in De Doorns,” she said. Hendrina Potgieter of Track n Trace in Port Elizabeth said she placed the report on their group in order to obtain any information about her whereabouts. She said anyone with information about Solomons could contact her. “Margaret Solomons was living in De Doorns and was born in 1976 and when she was very young she left with a truck nearly 30 years ago. “If anyone has seen her please note that her sister Elizabeth Fredies is looking for her and if you have any information please contact me on 0604582232,” she posted. Chaz Thomas, also from the organisation, said the teams in Johannesburg had also been alerted about the case. Weekend Argus