A psychological thriller co-written by a South African, based on isolation and intimacy at the height of Covid-19, is coming to the big screen at the Labia Theatre in Cape Town.  “The Grand Boléro” was shot and produced in Italy and shows how isolation can cause one’s desperate desire for connection to turn into an obsession. South African writer Ydalie Turk worked with Italian writer and director Gabriele Fabbro to present a story that explores loneliness and passion. The 90-minute film follows the main character, Roxanne, played by Italian star Lidia Vitale, whose life revolved around her love for the pipe organ. One day, her new assistant Lucia’s (played by Ludovica Mancini) arrival opens up an old wound of suppressed desire and sexuality. Both writer and director said although the film is set in a background where Covid-19 is present, they wanted to explore the need for human connection and touch during the pandemic. Turk, who is from Johannesburg, said the film was inspired by the pipe organ. “We knew that we wanted to write something about the niche life of a pipe organ restorer, because of how passionate these individuals are,” she said. Turk said she hopes that through this movie, the audience is reminded about the importance of connection. “Although our movie plays out at the end of a lack of connection and repressed emotions, I think it explores feelings of isolation we can all relate to and even lived through during the pandemic,” she said. The movie, which was released in 2021, has racked up multiple awards including best director, best cinematographer and best LGBTQI+ feature. Fabbro said “The Grand Boléro” was a great opportunity for him to show his obsession with classical music. “The soundtrack was recorded on three different types of organs including the grand organ of Villasanta (one of the biggest symphonic organs in Italy) and the mighty Wurlitzer (currently the only theatre organ in Italy),” he said. He added: “The film is a celebration of the history of cinema and its psychic power. I tried my best to reconcile the themes and characters of modern cinema with classic silent cinema when films were often scored live by pipe organs.” “The Grand Boléro” will be screening at the Labia Theatre for the public from July 23 to July 28. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa