Cape Town - The family of a man who went missing after he was allegedly beaten by security guards in Bellville, said the police have dispatched no forensic teams or issued any warrant to search the property where he was last seen eight months ago. Ramone Price, celebrated his 28th birthday in January and his family last saw him on December 13 last year when he ran to alert residents from his community that he had been beaten by security guards at Transnet Property in Bellville. He was never seen again. It is believed seven security guards beat Price. His family, who has been traumatised, said they chose not to be identified due to the sensitivity of the case. The family said in a statement, to Weekend Argus, they feel helpless because police had not dispatched sniffer dogs or forensic teams or treated the area where he went missing as a potential crime scene. They are appealing for a warrant for the premises to be searched for clues to what happened to their son and said they believed little attention was given on the case because Price was a drug addict. “We can't force police to get a search warrant for the premises nor can we go search by ourselves, nor do the police have the dogs nor do they have the drones to help in the search. “We are helpless as a family and that makes us feel useless. “Is it because we are not politicians or high ranking officers that we are being ignored, is it because our son is a drug addict. He still has the right to live and breathe like everyone else. “This case has now gone to a second police station with the second investigator and yet it's the same story, nothing, no news, no new information, no new results and still no interest in the case.” The family said according to neighbours, the guards who allegedly harmed   price were still on the premises.  Police spokesperson, Warrant Joseph Swartbooi said Price’s case was receiving a lot of attention by police and added that the new investigator was working around the clock to have a breakthrough. “(He) is still reported as missing. Kindly be informed that the matter has since been transferred to Belhar police for further investigation. The investigating officer is going the extra mile gathering information in a bid to ensure a breakthrough.” Anyone with information that can lead to the safe return of Price is kindly requested to the investigating officer Sergeant Marlow Swart on 021 953 8100 or alternatively  call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Candice van der Rheede of the Western Cape Missing Persons Unit confirmed they were also investigating the case.  “He is still missing, someone must have seen something,” said van der Rheede.” Weekend Argus