Cape Town - Their aim is to inspire and empower women across the province.  To celebrate Women’s Month, BruinChild Media, a NPC which focuses on uplifting communities, along with Limitless Consulting, will host a Women of Strength Entrepreneurial workshop in Eerste River on August 13. The workshop will cover a range of topics such as business development, business resources for youth, business funding and tax compliance for small businesses. One of the speakers, Billie-Jean McLaurie from Unlimited Sales, will be giving sales tips and techniques. “Sales is the main engine that drives the company. Without sales, a company cannot operate. This is why it is important for entrepreneurs to know how to sell,” Mc Laurie said. Founder of BruinChild Media, Alex Cupido, said it is important to celebrate women in business. “We need to empower women with information and resources in order to grow. The most important thing for us to accomplish with this workshop is for the women to network with each other and for them to start a support group. “Those who will be attending the event will also be guided through the steps on our to apply for government aid. “It takes courage to be a successful entrepreneur in a society (as some) believe women are supposed to be at home cleaning and looking after the family. Women should never give up and keep moving forward,” he said. Founder of Limitless Consulting, Tanya Schoeman, said workshops like these would educate, uplift and empower women who have the desire to open up their own business. “We hope to provide an insight into empowering women and to give women an opportunity to have a voice in a business. Business owners have been dominated by males for many years. Hopefully, this workshop will encourage women to be confident and bold to step out in faith and to start a business. “My message to women in South Africa is that they should realise that they are destined for greatness. It is already locked up inside of them, and all they need to do is to believe in themselves. “It is disappointing and unacceptable to see that (gender-based violence) is still an issue. I don’t believe that we should accept and overlook violence in general. “It is still a great injustice to women, and our nation needs to do more for these cases. Women are the very core of our nation,” she added. For more information, email: bruinchildmedia@gmail.com. Weekend Argus