Cape Town - Several break-ins and robberies at Luthando Day Care Centre in Gugulethu might lead to its closure, leaving vulnerable children destitute if they don’t get much-needed interventions. They have lost furniture, appliances, beddings, toys, electricity cables and light bulbs, and three doors were removed and windows damaged. The crèche was established in 2004 and vandalism escalated since 2020 but worsened last year. Principal Boniswa Mkhosana said the infrastructure damages would cost about R6 000 and they still need to replace the essential stolen items. Mkhosana said over the period they opened about eight cases with the Gugulethu SAPS and explored all avenues to try to save the crèche, to no avail. “We have been experiencing these incidents for a long time, but the matter escalated from late 2020 until now. Most recent cases were reported in November last year, another one in April this year, and again in May. We never get feedback or reports of any arrests from the police. They just give us case numbers and that’s it. We are in dire need for help to save the crèche as it serves children from underprivileged backgrounds. This is sad for us because we are losing a good fight to thugs and it seems not even authorities are on our side,” explained Mkhosana. Teacher Khuthala Moyakhe said this affects 40 children and parents constantly raise concerns about their safety. “We have children aged 1 to 5 paying between R220 and R450 per month to have a safe and friendly learning environment which has now turned into a dump due to lawless people in our community. We feel under attack and parents are threatened. The sad part is that police don't seem to care about investigating our cases. We are working with kids and it would be nice to have authorities coming on board, social development. Police and education are key structures that I believe they could save the crèche,” said Moyakhe. A concerned parent, Bongiswa Mtyandana, who has sent six children to the crèche, said she was disgusted by the attacks and also pleaded for intervention. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said while a subsidy is provided to ECD centres by the WCED, it does not own or operate the facilities. She said the onus is on the ECD management to put measures in place to secure and maintain their premises. “It is always disheartening when criminal activity targets places of learning and stimulation for our children. “The ECD is advised to connect with the local law enforcement authorities or local neighbourhood watch to increase visible security within the area. We encourage the community as a whole to help protect the children served by this ECD by reporting any suspicious activity to the police,” said Hammond. SAPS spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed multiple cases were opened. “This office can confirm that the case numbers in question refer to incidents that occurred at the mentioned premises. The investigation into the matters continue. Gugulethu police are investigating isolated cases of burglary at a business premises,” said Swartbooi. Anyone with information is urged to call Crime Stop on 08600 10111 and for donations, call Khuthala on 074 309 4627. Weekend Argus