Cape Town – Could we see the next Aries Merritt come from SA?  Denmar Jacobs, who is the current South African men’s U20 110m hurdles record holder, will represent the country at the World Athletics U20 Championships in Cali, Colombia next month, where he hopes to achieve Merritt’s success, the current men's 110m hurdles record holder He is part of a 47-member SA team, which include 25 men and 22 women, who will compete in a range of track and field disciplines. South Africa finished in sixth place in the overall standings in the previous edition of the age group spectacle in Kenya, bagging nine medals, two gold, two silver and four bronze. Jacobs said: “It was one of my objectives this season to make the SA team for the World Athletics U20 Championships and I am honoured to represent my country. “I can now tell my son that my childhood dream has become a reality and he would be able to tell his kids one day about their grandfather representing the country. “I am in great shape condition wise and have high hopes of doing well at the competition. My job right now is to go there, execute the best I can and to have fun,” he said. The Bellville Athletics Club athlete competed in a few competitions in Europe earlier this month as part of his preparations for the global event as the South African track and field season finished back in April. “The competitions had a positive impact on my preparations and the experience gained was invaluable. It was my first time travelling internationally and I learnt how to travel alone, train in different countries and speak Italian. I am a learner of this sport,” he said. His take on the World Athletics Championships taking place in the US: “It is exciting as I see myself competing there soon. Hopefully 2023 in Budapest, Hungary.” His coach Marcél Otto is concerned about the South African team travelling so late to the World Athletics U20 Championships. “The time difference between Cape Town and Cali is seven hours, so from a scientific point of view, Denmar should have spent his first full day at least seven days before August 1(the day his competition starts).  “However, he will only be arriving in Cali on July 29. “One has to be realistic, no matter his talent of preparation, his performance (and all the other SA athletes) will be affected because they’re travelling so late.  “We hope and pray he will reach the final and if he is focussed in the final, he can win a medal.  "Denmar's best time of 2022 is currently the sixth fastest in the world and we know he can go a lot faster,” he said. Weekend Argus