Cape Town - Aberdare Primary School in Delft beat the odds and came third in the ABC Motsepe South African Schools Choral Eisteddfod (SASCE) National Championship. The school represented Western Cape at this prestigious event held in Randburg and won the Mixed Choir Africa category. They sang a Tswana song titled Tshegang and scooped the third place  with 74.67 points. They came after Ngima Mobile Primary from Kwa-Zulu Natal and Usenathi Primary School from the Eastern Cape took the title at 83.33 points. Teacher and the school choir conductor, Siyabonga Makeleni said: "It was a great experience for us considering that this comes two years of not being able to compete due to Covid and we competed with a newly formed choir as most of our members have left the school already, and we only started preparing in February this year. We won both in the district and provincial level. It was also my first time conducting in the nationals." The choir comprises 53 learners from Grade 5, 6 and 7, whose parents were fully behind the choir.  "They have been supporting throughout and trusted us with their children when we had to keep them for practise until our journey to Johannesburg. The phone calls , well wishes and prayers all meant a lot, the school would like to thank them." Kwakhanya Ndlovu, 13, who travelled to Gauteng for the first time,  said: "I still can't believe we won, it was a joyful moment for us. Yes we put a lot of effort, practising from Monday to Thursday every week but being announced as winners at such a big competition was something else. I came home inspired to embrace my musical gift. "Also I thank the school for showing us life outside our home town, it was nice staying in a hotel, meeting learners from different parts of the country."  One of the parents, Kekeletso Mohale, said: "I am over the moon, We are all proud of the school and appreciate the opportunity it created for our children. It is the very first time that our choir makes it this far and it has exposed our children to a whole different world of music.  “The conversation around the school choir is now an exciting and informative one. We wish this is a first of many. Well done to the conductor and all who invested their time to make this a success.”