Cape Town - A number of Home Affairs officials have been put under the microscope for selling South African identities to foreign nationals. Six officials have been in the spotlight, with two being dismissed, and another four have been suspended for similar offences. Home Affairs media manager David Hlabane said the dismissals form part of an ongoing investigation. “In its ongoing clean-up operations, the Department of Home Affairs has dismissed two employees for fraud relating to selling of South African identities to foreign nationals who do not deserve such documents. Employee Phathisani Outshiki, from the Benoni office, was found guilty of gross misconduct for processing 111 documents for foreign nationals using particulars of South African citizens. They were charged a fee of R1000 per application. A total of 98 of these documents were passports, and 13 were identity documents. Outshiki pleaded guilty, and he was dismissed and is appealing his dismissal. Morena David Motsamai, from the Germiston office, was also found guilty of gross misconduct. Motsamai processed 13 passport applications for foreign nationals using particulars of South Africans. He was paid between R2 500 and R5 000 per application. Motsamai pleaded guilty and did not appeal the sanction. He was subsequently dismissed. Hlabane added police were also involved in these cases. “The police are pursuing criminal charges against both Mr Outshiki and Mr Motsamai. In addition, the police are tracking the South Africans who sold their identities and the foreign nationals who wanted to buy South African documents they do not deserve. “Fortunately, all the fraudulently processed IDs and passports were flagged as fraudulent and were removed from Home Affairs records, thus rendering them useless and unusable by the people who acquired them. None of these documents were ever used.” In a separate case, on July 1, the Department suspended four officials at the Tzaneen office who were allegedly processing fraudulent documents. Hlabane added their disciplinary hearings are scheduled to take place within 10 working days. Hlabane confirmed at least six official have been on their radar. Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi said they would stamp out corruption and fraud at all costs: “We shall fearlessly and ruthlessly root out corruption wherever it rears its ugly head. “I have no doubt that with support from members of the public who are patriotic enough to report these corrupt practices, we dare not fail but win this battle.” The minister further added that his Department is on the trail of more Home Affairs officials who are involved in these shameful acts and will continue to arrest them. Hlabane said Motsoaledi commended those extraordinary majority of Home Affairs officials who still serve with honesty and integrity despite the lucrative temptations which a few others, who are now being arrested, have fallen into. The minister urged citizens not to sell their identities to foreign nationals: ''If you sell your identity, you are replaced by a foreign national on our database, which means that you will not be able to access services in the country.” Weekend Argus