Consumers have been left digging deep into their pockets with the increase in fuel price. The most recent fuel price increase petrol went up by R2.57 a litre for 95 octane, and diesel by R2.30 a litre – R 2.31/l. The increase means motorists will pay R26.74 per litre of petrol, a 10%  hike on last June’s prices. And with the price of petrol standing at almost R30 per litre, motorists have searched for alternative ways to lessen the load on their fuel expenses. One of those “petrol hacks” are the petrol tablets. These round shaped yellow tablets which come in green and black sachets are said to make your car’s fuel consumption more efficient. However, global integrated chemicals and energy company, SASOL, has cautioned against the usage of these pills. Cobus Beukes, spokesperson for SASOL, explained that the petrol or diesel contains a certain energy content, and modern engines are effective in releasing all of this in the combustion process. “Without adding more energy content, you cannot improve fuel consumption significantly. “Some small benefits can be gained from additives which clean injectors/valves and additives which reduce friction, which these pills do not claim to do. “Even with such additives, this would result in fuel consumption benefit of no more than 3%. Most branded fuels already have such additives included, so adding further additives, even good ones, would make no further difference,” said Beukes. He added that introducing a solid item of unknown content into your fuel tank may cause blocked filters, damage the fuel gauge or release chemicals which could cause engine damage. “These products are typically not approved by car manufactures and not covered by your warranty. In some cases, it could void your warranty. “These is also typically no recourse to the agents of these pills.” An agent from Khayelitsha who wanted to remain anonymous, told the Weekend Argus the pill was a hot seller. “You pay R100 per tablet and R400 for a sachet of four and I sell over 1000 a week, and I sell it to people who come back for more, so it has to be working,” said the agent. She added that she received her stock via online orders. “Anyone can sell them, its easy to get, you just have to tell the agent you buy from that you also want to sell and then we send you a link and you register.” A chemical engineer who chose not to be named said the use of the pill was based on the old school technique of moth balls. “In the past people would take moth balls, crush it up and put it in their fuel tanks to get a higher gas octane, but this won’t work in modern days because the way they make cars now is much different. If you do this now, you will save, but in the long run you might sit with a clogged fuel injector or even lead to poor performance in a car.” A car enthusiast, who spoke to Weekend Argus on the basis of anonymity, said another way to save on petrol would be to introduce hybrid fuel into the system. He said he tested the theory of running a car off water and petrol, and said it produced positive results. The enthusiast who has been doing research for over 40 years said he has confidence in a system using hybrid fuel. The HHO cell system uses electrolysis to split water into its base molecules (hydrogen and oxygen) and this cell can be used to boost the efficiency of an engine. In simpler terms, using this method means that the consumer will be using water molecules created from hydrogen instead of using its energy. He said: “I can confidently tell you this works. About 10 years ago, I drove 90km off one litre of petrol. It is a major saving hack that can be achieved with minimal changes on your car, and it can also be done in your own backyard using household items.” The source added that people could save anything between 30 to 50% of their fuel consumption. “The system was also tested on trucks. The trucks which once used 22 litres of petrol per 100km, now used 14 litres per 100km. “It was also done for someone who drove over 3000km to Durban from Cape Town, the person only filled up his tank twice. “The stem doesnt contaminate your oil, the only thing is that you would need to change your exhaust to stainless steel every year, but here you will also save on maintaining your car.” The 57-year-old added that it would cost about R150 to build a system like this. Referring to the “petrol tablets”, the source said, it could also save on fuel. “When we were younger, we would use moth balls as a fuel additive, so these petrol tablets are something similar. However, using too much can damage your engine, so you need to understand what you are doing. “I would still say the best way to save on fuel is to change your driving style, for instance keep to the speed limit; try to avoid driving at peak times; try to keep your car at its torque speed and make sure your car is properly maintained. “Remember, your car is not heavy on petrol, petrol is just expensive.” Western Cape Member of Parliament, Ricardo Mackenzie, urged motorists to steer away from products such as petrol tablets. “These products promise the world but they don't deliver on anything and more importantly, they are dangerous, maybe you won’t see it now but in the years ahead it will catch up. “You cannot add anything to fuel, it's as simple as that,” said  Mackenzie. He said the only solution was to slash taxes on the fuel price.  The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) said the rise in fuel prices was a concern. “The high fuel price increase in July was exacerbated by the reduction in the general fuel levy discount. “This is the highest monthly increase in the price, taking us to just under R27 per litre of petrol,” said Outa CEO Wayne Duvenage. “The government has not heeded the call for a continuation of the fuel levy reprieve at the full value of R1.50 per litre. “Clearly the tax revenue shortfalls have negated (the) government's ability to continue with the relaxation in the fuel levy. We are now paying the high price of weak economic policy that has given rise to the South African currency punching well below its potential, combined with high taxes and levies applied to petrol,”  he concluded.