Cape Town - The hospitality and tourism and events sector has become one of the main sources of boosting the economy after the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently Cape Town International Airport (CTIA) received an award while Cape Town boasts some of the best restaurants in the country and internationally. Since April 2022,  at CTIA, visitors have reached 98%. Regan Thaw, media liaison office for the Premier, Alan Winde, said Cape Town offered top-class restaurants and hospitality which has increased the economy since the pandemic. “The Western Cape’s hospitality, tourism and events sectors are among the industries leading the charge in the province’s post-Covid-19 economic recovery,” said Thaw. “This is shown by recent accolades awarded to Cape Town International Airport, some of Cape Town’s best restaurants, and the town of Franschhoek. “From our restaurants to our picturesque towns, it is clear that Cape Town and the province offer both international visitors and residents an array of top-class experiences. “The Western Cape government believes the hospitality and tourism sectors are important aspects of getting the provincial economy back on its feet.” Thaw added that the awards received in the sector was proof enough. One of Cape Town’s restaurants made it to the World’s 50 Best Restaurants list. “The latest accolade was presented to Cape Town’s Fyn Restaurant, which cooked itself to 37th place in the auspicious World’s 50 Best Restaurants list – an internationally recognised competition showcasing exceptional eating spots across the globe,” he said. “The Western Cape’s ‘winning streak’ does not end there. The very same list also featured two more restaurants in its top 100. The renowned La Colombe, also in Cape Town, and Paternoster’s Wolfgat restaurants continue to rack up awards, having joined Fyn on the same prestigious list. “International visitors are once again discovering the many attractions on offer in the Cape. In April 2022, arrivals through CTIA soared to 98% of pre-pandemic levels. Recent data from Statistic South Africa also showed other key source markets such as Germany and the Netherlands made an impressive recovery in April, compared with the same period in 2019. “CTIA also continues to impress. Last month, it was once again ranked the best in Africa for the 7th consecutive year, in the 2022 Skytrax World Airport Awards. “While the Mother City has a lot to offer tourists, hitting the road and exploring the rest of the Western Cape is also worthwhile. Take Franschhoek, for example. The Western Cape government is very proud of the town, which recently made it onto Time Magazine’s list of the World’s Greatest Places for 2022.” Thaw added that during the latest rugby match on Saturday, the stadium was packed.  “Our events sector is another post-Covid-19 recovery priority. The recent South Africa and Wales rugby Test decider played at Cape Town’s DHL Stadium saw nearly 51 000 people pack the venue to cheer the Springboks to victory,” he said. “The WC government is not just excited by the opportunity the match offered as a springboard for the return of the events industry, now that all Covid-19 restrictions have been lifted, but the provincial government is proud of the Springbok squad too.” Western Cape Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC, Mireille Wenger, said the province had a lot to offer international, domestic and local visitors. “No matter what you enjoy doing, from hiking to dining, from the outdoors to wonderful cultural experiences, we really do have it all. The slew of recent accolades confirms this, and we are very proud that many of the stunning spots in the province are being recognised,” she said. Gillion Bosman, the DA Western Cape spokesperson for Finance, Economic Opportunities and Tourism, said many opportunities were being created by government with its international relationships. “It’s good to see that the Western Cape government is not content to simply rely on agreements reached by national government, but is taking a proactive approach to ensure international partners can easily access the Western Cape economy. This will contribute to much needed economic growth in our province, and most importantly, to more job opportunities for our citizens,” he said. Weekend Argus