Life coach, business owner and first-time author Liezel Snyman has released her debut book, Beautifully Flawed. The work, published in December, had its Exclusive Books launch at the V&A Waterfront store last night. Beautifully Flawed is Snyman’s autobiography. She started writing the book in 2009 when she had just divorced her second husband. “That marriage only lasted six months. That experience made me very vulnerable,” she said. In 2010, she was diagnosed with stage-three lymphoma, which brought her closer to God, Snyman said. “I had been twice divorced, experienced so many soul ties, and felt suicidal on many occasions,” she said. She added: “Finding out that I had cancer and that it was in my neck, spleen and abdomen, I was reminded that God is always with me.” During the two years of battling cancer until she went into remission in 2012, she said she experienced a spiritual awakening. “In the face of death, nothing else matters. I knew God was with me through it all,” she said. “Even though the chances of living were so slim at the time, I experienced a renewal of my mind,” she added. Snyman said she wrote Beautifully Flawed to share the message of grace and transformation she had experienced in her life. “I was done allowing myself to be defined by my pain and trauma. This book is dedicated to women who have experienced trauma, loss or abuse,” she said. She added: “It's for women who have been judged, women who tried to make better choices but didn’t. In the aftermath of their poor choices, they can still find themselves in the rubble of their pain." The author is originally from Elsie’s River, grew up as a pastor’s daughter, and fell pregnant with her first child at the age of 16. The mother of three has been married to her husband, Johnny Snyman, for the past eight years. She has three children – Simone, 28, Larnelle, 23, and Ethan, 4. Snyman, 46, worked in the banking industry for 24 years before she quit her job to open her business last July. Her business is called Kintsukuroi Consulting and offers personal, career and executive coaching. The name refers to the Japanese art of repairing broken pottery with gold or silver, to make a piece more beautiful for having been broken. “The name resonated with me because I’ve been broken many times in my life, but God healed those pieces, equipping me to help others,” she said. Snyman said she had been doing motivational speaking for years, and that last year God confirmed to her that this was what she needed to do in the next chapter of her life. “I was always connected to people and worked in positions that allowed me to mentor and coach others,” she said She added: “I see this business a lot like a ministry for Christ. It’s a way that I can help people and guide them to finding their purpose in life.” Weekend Argus Keshia Africa