Break-dancer Brandon Petersen “B-boy The Curse” is planning to hang up his dancing shoes after an illustrious 21-year career. But he will only bow out after the New York world finals.  Petersen is the reigning national champion after busting awe-inspiring moves at the Red Bull BC One competition in June, in the B-boy category. He will be heading to New York in November to participate in the world finals.  Petersen has won the Red Bull BC One competition four times – a feat held by only one other South Africa dancer.  In the competition’s 15 years, the Eerste River resident clinched the national title in 2012, 2015, 2016 and this yea, and believed entering competitions was the best way to test your skills. “There were many competitions, but entering and winning the Red Bull BC One was my way of affirming to myself that I can compete at a national level,” he said. “I’ve already reached the goals I’ve set for myself in this. I want to make room for younger break-dancers. “These competitions take a lot of training and mental preparation, which is  why I’m stepping down. Competitions at this level require four months of training, four hours a day, three times a week,” he added. Petersen said when he participates in a break-dancing cypher, it feels like he is in conversation with his audience. “Dancing is my way of communicating with the crowd, there is a connection that I can’t explain,” he said. The 36-year-old said his love for break-dancing began at age 11. “I recall my school (Tuscany Glen Primary School) hosting a fund-raiser where a battle was happening. A group of kids were cheering someone on, and I ran over to see what was happening,” he said. “I had no idea what the guy was doing, but I was intrigued and the interest has never left me since." In high school, Petersen saw people dancing and was immediately drawn into learning the dance.  He said dancing has taught him patience. “There are some moves that you master overnight and others that take you six months to a year to get right,” he said. “That’s something I can take away from break-dancing and apply to my daily life. When I teach workshops to kids, this is the first thing I share with them – everything takes patience,” he said. The break-dancing champion is a man of many talents. He works as a qualified barista, and dabbles in content creation with photography and videography. “I started working as a barista during lockdown because the performing arts were dead and I needed to generate an income,” he said. Petersen added that despite dipping his toes in other industries, dance remains his first love.  “I will never forget the feeling it gave me. I’m motivated to be making my mark in this industry,” he said. “I want to help create a world where parents are satisfied with their children choosing a career in the arts. Establishing and legitimising this in our local communities is my end goal. “I want to leave my legacy in this industry and spread a positive message about it. Hip hop and everything that comes with it is a positive thing – my life is a testament to this.” Weekend Argus  Keshia Africa