Cape Town – The children’s book “What's Next?” tells the story of Fatima, a little girl who makes memories on her after-school trips with her grandfather. The book, which was inspired by author Rayhaanah Williams’s personal experience, recounts the fun adventures that Fatima and her grandpa enjoy,  colouring it up with a superhero element that ties in with protecting the environment, which is also important to the author. Williams said it was important for her to ensure that her book contributed to diversity by representing the Islamic faith through her characters. “This was also done as I felt there was a lack of representation regarding the Muslim community in children’s literature, therefore I chose a well-known Muslim name to portray the main character.” On the message of conservation, she said: “I believe that children should be made aware of issues such as climate change and the importance of environmental conservation from a young age, and what better way to learn these values than being educated through reading. Although children may not fully understand such a complex concept, it lays a necessary foundation and opens the door to these conversations. After all, these children are the future generation that will exist in a time where issues such as climate change would have progressed significantly.” The book’s illustrator, Clyde Beech, said this was a story that hit close to home. “What's always great about visual storytelling is that I get to represent characters that look and sound like me. Representation matters, and it's important that people see themselves in the amazing stories that are told. In our book you'll notice that the little girl is wearing a cape – that's because we wanted little girls to know that they are super,” said Beech. Williams added: “The main message of the book is that even the little things can bring you joy if you allow them to. I would like the reader to value what may seem as the small moments in life and I hope that children will read this book, reminding them what it’s like to be free-spirited.” On her plans for future projects, she said: “I have many ideas that I cannot wait to share. The burning question is, What's next?” Weekend Argus