Cape Town - Eid al-Adha, which translates as festival of sacrifice was recently celebrated to mark the end of the Hajj. The festival promotes the spirit of commitment, selflessness and is all about caring and sharing and that is what Nakhlistan stands for. As the Islamic year came to an end, Muslims from across the world prepared for Muharram, the first month on the Islamic calendar. To commemorate the 10th day of Muharram, Nakhlistan, a local NPO intends to cook 41 pots of Akhnie, to feed those in need on Women’s Day. The organisation, however, does need your help to make this become a reality. Spokesperson for Nakhlistan, Fatima Allie, said it was narrated that feeding a hungry person is one of the highest forms of charity. “We all have a social responsibility to help those who require our assistance. The abundance that we receive from our Creator has to be shared with those who are in need. We use what we need and the rest we share. Then the next person uses what they need, and the rest they share. There are more blessings in giving. The more you give, the more you receive and once again, you are able to give. “Sharing and caring is a gift that keeps on giving. The legacy of the late Shukoor Mowzer (founder of Nakhlistan) was to feed the needy unconditionally to become most beneficial to humanity. “We have all survived two years of the Covid-19 pandemic. We all know of someone who has lost a loved one or lost their job during the past 28 months. This is how we pay it forward, through an attitude of gratitude,” she said. Administrator for Sandvlei United Community Organisation (Suco), Noora Salie, said they are blessed to have Nakhlistan in their midst. “As the Suco, we cannot express our gratitude towards Nakhlistan enough. Their aid has helped so many community members in vulnerable situations. They have fed the bellies of many hungry children along with their families. “Many residents were able to sleep in warm blankets due to their generous donations. We are grateful as recipients and hope the support of the broader community towards Nakhlistan continues. Their services are crucial and they change lives everyday,” Salie said. Nakhlistan was started by Mowzer close to four decades ago. His goal was to feed those in need and with the best quality ingredients on Eid-ul-Fitr, a Islamic celebration which takes place every year after a month-long fast during Ramadan. This year the organisation fed more than 90 000 people on Eid-ul-Fitr. If you would like to help Nakhlistan, email: info@nakhlistan.org.za or visit: www.nakhlistan.org.za. Weekend Argus