The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) said it will instigate a probe after the DA discovered 2 000 solar panel geysers in a dusty store room in Maskamsig in Vanrhynsdorp, Western Cape last week.  The geysers were, according to the DA, received in 2021 by the then-ANC coalition, which controlled the Matzikama municipality during this period, and reportedly “never handed” them over to residents. “This is not on,” said SAHRC commissioner Chris Nissen. “It’s winter, it’s load shedding, how are the people supposed to keep themselves warm?” Nissen said.  “We will definitely look into this as it’s not something we take lightly.” The DA said the national government handed over the geysers to the municipality early last year, but no attempt was made to install the geysers. In addition, there is currently a dispute between the national government and the supplier. ANC spokesperson Sifiso Mtsweni said the DA’s claims were egregious.  “It is worth noting that it is in fact the DA’s very candidate and councillor-elect that must take the blame for the theft,” Mtsweni told Weekend Argus.  “He was previously a PA ward councillor and he pushed for the appointment of a certain service provider to secure the equipment. Why has the DA appointed him as their candidate if they so worried about the so-called theft? Could it be that they are now accomplices to theft and thereby criminals themselves?” Vanrhynsdorp was controlled by coalition between Patriotic Alliance and the DA after local government elections in 2021.  After a heated argument, the leader of the PA Gayton McKenzie withdrew his party’s alliance with the DA. Councillor Christo Boks then resigned from the PA to join the DA earlier this year. That necessitated a by-election.  The DA won the hotly contested by-election by clinching the ward from the PA on Wednesday.  The party won with 1 568 votes. The ANC’s campaign efforts proved to fruitless and it fizzled with a vote of just 31.57%, while the PA only managed to secure 5.6% of the votes. “The geysers are earmarked for beneficiary residents of Vanrhynsdorp and Klawer, and like the rest of South Africa, these residents are also suffering from load shedding,” the DA’s interim deputy leader Tertuis Simmers said.  "If the ANC government had done its job and made sure that the solar panel geysers were installed last year, the people would have hot water every day." Simmers said it’s a good thing they’re now in power.  “We sincerely thank the voters of ward 7 in Matzikama for putting their trust in the DA,” he said.  “We thank Christo Boks for recognising that his commitment to good governance can best be met as a councillor for the DA. We shall work hard to honour the result of tonight's by-election.” The PA could not be reached for comment.