Cape Town - Bereaved families who lost their children in mysterious circumstances in the Enyobeni tavern tragedy in East London over a week ago are set to lay their loved ones to rest during a mass funeral at the Scenery Park sports ground on Wednesday. The families will be joined by President Cyril Ramaphosa, Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane and provincial and local government leaders for the service from 9am. Government has expressed appreciation for support that has been received from all sectors of society in preparation for the funeral. The Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality (BCMM) has also waived the grave fees for the burial of the deceased and will facilitate other logistical needs with the provincial government to ensure a dignified send-off for the deceased. “The provincial government together with its partners will continue to provide psycho-social support to the bereaved families and the broader community.  This will include community debriefing sessions to assist everyone to cope with the impact of the tragic event,” they said. After the mass funeral service, families will be able to bury their loved ones at separate cemeteries, while some family members will bury their loved ones over the weekend. Grieving aunt, Ntombizonke Mgangala said they thought her late niece, Sinothando Mgangala would fly the family name high. “This is a child who we were hoping will take the family name high and be something in life as she was the first from her father’s side who was about to do matric. We are heartbroken and we are just trying to cope,” she said. Meanwhile ANCYL Regional Treasurer Aseza Somagaca said the families were kept “in the dark” on the investigation. “Progress from authorities has been alarmingly slow, the families are still waiting for autopsy results. These families can’t get proper closure without getting answers. “There’ll only be two bodies that will be buried tomorrow the rest will only be empty coffins,” he said. Police said circumstances surrounding the incident were under investigation. Cape Times