Cape Town - Three alleged drug dealers and an apparent gunman, who hid a firearm in a buried ice-cream container, have been put behind bars. The police’s crime prevention unit, together with Law Enforcement, carried out visible policing in parts of Hanover Park. The suspects, aged 26, 21, 24 are expected to make an appearance at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court after drugs close to R3 000 in value were confiscated. Philippi police spokesperson, Captain Lance Goliath said drugs such as crystal meth and heroin were found. “Creating a safer environment within the Philippi Police precinct by clamping down on criminals and criminal activities resulted in three male suspects behind bars after they were found to be in possession of drugs. “Increased visibility by following an integrated approach by Philippi Crime Prevention Unit, Law Enforcement and the involvement of community structures and the community contribute daily to the apprehension of criminals and the confiscations of illegal objects and substances. “At 10.30am two male suspects, aged 26 and 21, were arrested for the illegal possession of drugs at a well known drug outlet at Pelican Court, Hanover Park when they were found to be in possession of unga and crystal meth. “At 11.50am, while patrolling in the close vicinity of a well-known drug outlet at Turflyn Walk, Hanover Park, a 24-year-old suspect was arrested for illegal possession of drugs after he was searched and crystal meth was found in his possession. A combined total of 47 Units of unga and 40 units of crystal meth with a total estimated street value of R2 600 was confiscated from all three male suspects. “Police are investigating cases of possession of drugs,” Goliath said. Philippi station commander, Colonel Adriaan Saulse commended the members involved in the arrest. “We are urging the community to come forward with information pertaining to illegal firearms, drugs and all other criminal activities,” he said. ` During a separate arrest at the weekend, members of the Anti-Gang Unit found a firearm hidden inside an ice-cream container which had been buried after searching a wendy house in Retreat. Police confiscated a .38 Special Taurus revolver and six rounds of ammunition at the residence in Chopin Street. During the same operation, three suspects wanted for an attempted murder were also placed behind bars. Police spokesperson, Captain Frederick Van Wyk explained: “The members responded immediately and a thorough search was conducted at the premises. A revolver was found buried in an ice cream container in the backyard in front of a wendy house. “A 20-year-old suspect was arrested for possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. A tracing of wanted persons operation was conducted where the team proceeded to several addresses in the precinct. “The members arrested three suspects, a 29-year-old and two suspects, aged 20, on a Steenberg murder and attempted murder case.” Western Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Thembisile Patekile commended the members for their efforts in ensuring that illegal firearms are out of circulation. “Every illegal firearm confiscated is a weapon that is no longer available to be used in the commission of a serious crime. These confiscations are an indication that every endeavour is made by our members to reduce the proliferation of unlawful firearms in the hands of lawbreakers,” Patekile said. Weekend Argus