Cape Town - Anti-firearms organisations have called on the national police commissioner to prioritise a destruction site for the Western Cape as shooting incidents continue rising.  Claire Taylor, researcher for Gun Free SA said the recent state of mass shootings alone called for illegal firearms to be destroyed. “The recent gun massacres in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng and continuing massacres in the Western Cape, especially Khayelitsha, highlight the gun violence epidemic in South Africa, in which 23 people are shot and killed every day. “To reduce gun deaths we must reduce the circulation of guns, the tap must be turned off.  “The first step is to recover illegal guns.  “By their very nature illegal guns are outside of any control and so are highly valued by criminals. “However, firearm recovery without destruction is a serious risk as weapon stockpiles are especially vulnerable to large-scale loss or theft. “Destroying recovered firearms,  ammunition and firearm parts is the only way to ensure they do not leak back into communities. “GFSA calls on national police commissioner General Fannie Masemola to prioritise establishing a suitable, dedicated site for firearms destructions in the Western Cape.  “In the interim, we call on SAPS to urgently destroy SAPS held weapon stocks earmarked for destruction at an established site outside that province to limit the risk of leakage.  “Not only will this save lives, it will show that SAPS is serious about managing firearms under its control.” Criminologists believed greed and business rivalry were at the root of the problem. Dr Nirmala Gopal from the University of KwaZulu-Natal said that in the absence of an established link between the various attacks, it appeared this was a “reign of terror on tavern owners” by others wanting to monopolise the industry. “There are other elements of greed, profits, rivalry, power, and aggression.  “All these elements are typical of South African society at large and among criminals in particular.” Gopal said tavern violence mimicked drug-related violence but the fundamental difference was that drinkers were easy to identify because of the legal status of alcohol. Criminologist and former policeman Dr Hennie Lochner blamed the government for creating the current killing spree in taverns. He believed the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020, which included a ban on the sale of alcohol and cigarettes, could have sparked the current crisis. Lochner said the shootings were “mafia-style competition” where rival tavern owners wanted to eliminate their competition. He said the hard lockdown created a market for cheap, illicit cigarettes and alcohol and those businesses still existed even after the bans were lifted. “The lack of crime intelligence is the cause of the problems in South Africa and must be dealt with urgently,” said Lochner. Gun Free SA director Adele Kirsten said the high rate of murders in South Africa were not new but the pattern of gun violence was changing. She said over the past 18 months there had been increases in multiple shootings, multiple gunshot wounds to victims and multiple shootings in public spaces. “When you have multiple shootings and victims with multiple shots it means that you have an excess and easy supply of guns and ammunition.” Kirsten said many crimes in South Africa were committed with handguns which clearly showed that those weapons had belonged to civilians. She said the current Firearms Control Amendment Bill repealed the rights of citizens to apply for a licence on the basis of self-defence which is why it had the support of Gun Free South Africa. “The less guns, the less dead people,” said Kirsten. A recent report by the APS addressed to provincial parliament said that a designated illegal firearms destruction site would be too costly and a high risk and that former sites were either shut down or not available. Gillion Bosman, DA Spokesperson on community safety said the decision by the police was turning a blind eye to the bloodshed in communities plagued by gunfire. “Four months after requesting that the matter of a dedicated firearms site for the Western Cape be escalated to the national level, SAPS has confirmed in a communique that the transportation of illegal firearms to Pretoria for destruction is not only costly, but also of high risk. “Yet despite being aware of these risks, the national government has shown no initiative to establish a decentralised destruction site in the Western Cape.  “This is a slap in the face to the families who have lost loved ones to senseless shootings as a result of the proliferation of illegal firearms. “Owing to this, I will be submitting a parliamentary question to ascertain SAPS’ safety concerns of Cisco and what would need to be done to make it a viable location for firearm destruction.  “Additionally, I will directly engage with Cisco to see if they are in a position to take on this responsibility. “The SAPS is a stumbling block to the reforms we need to take illegal firearms off our streets. It is time for decentralisation of such mandates to be taken seriously.” A letter to provincial parliament signed by Provincial Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Thembisile  Patelike on July 15 said: “Arcellor Mittal,  previously utilised, is shut down and no more operational.  “Cisco in Kuilsriver previously utilised has safety risks and is not recommended at this stage for the destruction process.  “There is currently no risk free suitable destruction facility operating in the Western Cape.” Policing Oversight and Community Safety MEC Reagan Allen raised the issue in March.  Allen said since then 29 people have lost their lives in mass shootings in Khayelitsha. “I have prioritised this matter as there are immense risks with firearms being transported bi-annually to Gauteng to be destroyed.  “This matter is still under discussion with various role players and is receiving the required attention.  “It is important that these firearms do not end up back on the streets.” Police Colonel Athlenda Mathe did not respond to Weekend Argus queries. Weekend Argus