Cape Town - Police have arrested a 33-year-old man who threatened to kill his ex-girlfriend, her sister and mother.  The man was out on bail for assaulting Nosipho Tabata, a nurse who had to go into hiding after receiving threats. He was meant to appear in court but instead opted to not go and threatened to kill Tabata and her two family members. In a series of voice messages sent to Tabata, the man said he knew that if he went to court, the police would arrest him on the spot. “I have seen where you live. I will get drunk so that I won’t have mercy on you. By the time police arrive, I will be done with you,” said the man in one of the voice messages. The suspect was brazen in his threats, going as far as saying he was not scared of the police as they won’t find him. “You are not responding to my calls. I will catch you. If I do not die first, get money and have me killed. If I do not die, I will come after your family members. The first person I want to kill is Sindiswa (her sister), then come after you.” He also said he hired a hitman to kill Tabata at her workplace. Tabata said she did see the hitman, but he did not harm her. Tabata took to social media last week Thursday, saying she was in an abusive relationship with the man known to the Weekend Argus. He cannot be named at the moment as he is yet to appear in court. “He has been threatening of killing me since varsity,” said Tabata. “I remember, in 2017, he dragged me by the car when I was trying to scream for the police near Phillip East Police Station. On 2019 December 17, he burnt our shack in Harare after chasing us with a gun.” She also posted images of the bruises she got after being assaulted. “On 8 May 2022, he was beating me for refusing to have sex with him. I was late. We were coming from Paarl. I had to iron my work clothes and take a bath. I told him that I'm very late for work, and it is not like I am not coming back as we stayed together.” Tabata left the man and changed addresses. He told her in one of the voice messages that he got Tabata’s older brother drunk so that he could get her new address and was successful. Tabata had to stop working and find a new hiding place as the police searched for the man. She again had to find another hiding place that only she and her sister knew. He was finally arrested on Monday. Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed the arrest. “According to reports, the complainant (27-year-old female) and a 33-year-old man arrived at their home in Urha Street in Wesbank on Sunday 8 May 2022 at around 20:35. The two became involved in an argument. The male assaulted the complainant. Mfuleni police are investigating a case of assault common.” More charges are expected to be added when he appears in court. Tabata said she was relieved that the suspect was finally arrested. Weekend Argus