Cape Town - Joey Roman, 19, from Kuils River, will be taking her heritage to the international stage when she represents South Africa in Ecuador, South America, in October. Roman was crowned Miss Teen Supranational South Africa 2022, just months after she competed as a finalist in the Teen Universe South Africa, where she took her Khoisan heritage to the stage. Roman competed against 100 contestants and made it to the top 10. Eventually she was chosen in the top five and was crowned Miss Teen Supranational South Africa on July 2. The competition was held in Pretoria at the SA State Theatre. Roman made headlines in January when she made it to the finals in Teen Universe South Africa, where she wore Khoisan attire arranged by Lukretia Booysen and Jolene Martin, the founders of Koena Art Institute & KwaaiKhoi – the specialist Khoisan Art, Culture and Events. Martin herself had dressed up in a Khoisan-inspired outfit in 2018 which went viral in the entertainment industry. Roman and her family had driven to Pretoria and were excited for the pageant after many months and weeks of sacrifice and discipline. Roman said her ideology was not just to win, but to share her story with other coloured girls in Cape Town and South Africa that anything was possible if you worked hard and were determined and disciplined. “This was a big competition as 100 people participated,” she said. “When I reached the top five, it wasn’t just about me, but a victory for coloured girls. It was about everybody who supported me. It was a message that you can make it and that anything is possible. “We were five girls who were selected and we will each represent South Africa in Ecuador in South America in October. I am the only one from the Western Cape.” Roman said when she takes part internationally she will yet again be taking her Khoisan heritage with her. “I plan to wear Khoisan attire on that stage as it is my heritage.” Roman’s mother, Tania Roman, said they were very proud of her. “It was both an emotional and tiring experience and she is the first person in our family who has achieved this,” she said. “She goes for what she wants to achieve.” Her father, Jason Roman, is a member of the Cochoqua Royal House (Khoi) and said his daughter was an inspiration for young girls. “I am very proud of the woman Joey is becoming by inspiring others. She is not just doing it for herself, but for those who are not as fortunate as her.” Roman will now be planning various fund-raising events for her travelling expenses and registration for the competition. Weekend Argus