Cape Town - With Banyana Banyana making history by winning the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations for the first-time, Tyler Scott will be aiming to reach those heights. Tyler, 18, was awarded an academic scholarship and soccer scholarship to Bluefield State University in West Virginia, US. Her pre-season training takes place this weekend and her classes begin in late-August. Tyler said she is happy to have received two scholarships from Bluefield. “I’ve worked really hard for both and it’s such a good feeling to see it paying off. Studying overseas wouldn’t be possible without a scholarship so I’m looking forward to making the most out of this opportunity. “I am hoping to achieve numerous things at Bluefield State University. Academics has always been the priority for me so I will be aiming to keep very high standards for myself in my work. Not only do I hope to develop as a player on the field but also as a person. “Being in a new country, far from home with very different cultures and people around me is an experience in itself and I’d love to learn a lot from those around me,” she said. This comes as no surprise as she has already represented South Africa at Under-17 level and scored on debut against Zimbabwe in 2020. She has also played for a number of local soccer clubs including: UCT FC, Green Point Salesians AFC and Camps Bay FC “Representing my country was incredible. It’s a difficult feeling to describe because you’re so focused on the task at hand but also a very emotional moment. “Growing up, there were so many times where I would see a group of kids playing with a ball and just go join them. I’d be with them for four hours and not have a single conversation besides calling for the ball  and that was perfectly okay.  “Other times, I’d rock up, start playing and make tons of friends simply because we had a common love for the sport. “There was no specific reason that I started playing soccer, neither of my parents played it and no one else in the family was very interested either. I started playing in pre-school when I was about four. I did any and every sport I could including, netball, tennis, cricket, volleyball, swimming, jump rope and surfing and for some reason I fell in love with soccer,” she said. Tyler admires Rose Lavell and Alex Morgan, who both play for the US women’s national soccer team. “Rose Lavelle does the basics brilliantly and can get technical when she needs to, which makes her extremely effective. She is such a hard worker on the field and is so humble. Alex Morgan is a great striker, she does exactly what the position’s task requires, making tricky finishes look so simple and executing almost every chance she gets. “It’s a great achievement for Banyana Banyana to win the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations. This is good for women’s soccer in South Africa, as it boosts everyone’s confidence in the team and their capabilities. With regard to my future goals, I am taking it one step at a time,” she added. Her father Grant said he is incredibly proud of his daughter. “She set out to achieve a goal and is on the journey to achieving it. To be fair, I don’t even think it was a soccer specific goal, the goal was to create opportunities for herself to have great life experiences.  “Soccer just happens to be one of her many loves and through her hard work this great opportunity was offered.  “People often look at what she has achieved from the outside and assume she is privileged. Indeed she is, but that privilege is a depth of character that simply gets on with what needs to be done,” he said. One of her former coaches, Johan Nieuwenhuys, described Tyler as a dedicated player, who has a great passion for the game. “She is warm and friendly off and on the field. We are absolutely thrilled for her,” he said Weekend Argus