Cape Town - Cape Town make-up artist Rezah “Zah” Sampson is jetting off to Kenya after  an invite from Google Africa to participate in their Alté Business Residency, hosted in Nairobi. Recently, Cape Town make-up artist Rezah “Zah” Sampson announced that he had partnered with Arc stores for the launch of Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin in South Africa. The Google Alté Movement was established for creatives who identify as alternative/non-mainstream so that they can learn how to optimise Google’s platforms. Sampson said he felt honoured, blessed and grateful to have been a part of this experience. “I spoke this into existence, so I shouldn’t be surprised. At the start of this year, I told myself this is the year that brands will see my worth and that I will get flown out to the best events,” he said. He added: “That’s exactly what’s been happening, I just never expected it to be Google, and to Kenya.” Sampson was one of 20 people selected from the continent and one of two South Africans chosen to partake in the residency. The Alté Business Residency was hosted from June 27 to June 30. All accommodation and travel expenses were covered by Google. Sampson said the residency experience spared no expense. From press conferences to five-star hotel dinners, they were treated like royalty. “We had our welcome dinner at the five-star Kempinski Hotel, where we met each other for the first time,” he said. “The great food and amazing conversation allowed us to develop our relationships and now, everlasting friendship with each other,” he added. On the trip, they had a variety of interactive experiences with the group while being taught how to utilise the apps to their advantage. “It was great to know that we were given the space to be creative. Inclusion was everywhere and the experience taught us a lot,” he said. Sampson said his key takeaway from the trip was learning that there’s a bigger audience that is happy to accept him outside South Africa. “We had discussions on how we can move the culture forward, support each other, break prejudices and biases,” he said. “We spoke about how we can integrate all our talents and differences, to solidify Africa on the map, and help African creatives monetise their talents,” he added. If you’re a fan of Sampson and his work, you can expect to see him continue hustling and grinding for his brand. “My short-term goal is to have my face on TV, in publications and on every social media platform. My long-term goal is to create a sustainable life for myself and my family by doing what I love,” he said. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa