The City’s Safety and Security Directorate has allocated R5 million of its R50 million CCTV expansion budget for cameras to be installed on Baden Powell Drive. A large proportion of the funding has been allocated for infrastructure and the erection of seven cameras. The long stretch between the N2 and Sunrise Circle in Muizenberg has been described by residents as a dark and scary road, with its users frequently driving recklessly and police having to attend to not only accidents but also bodies that have been dumped between the bushes on the beach highway. Another road that will be under the eagle eye of a CCTV camera is Jakes Gerwel Drive. The stretch – which runs alongside Cape Flats suburbs such as Mitchells Plain, Manenberg, Philippi, Hanover Park and Schaapkraal – will also get a CCTV camera, said Metro Police director of CCTV and radio Barry Schuller. “The project will commence next month, subject to way leave and electricity permissions. “The City has an overall budget to maintain CCTV cameras which has been increased from R9 million to R16 million. “It should be noted that the electricity supply for the public lights is the same feed for the CCTV cameras, so without power to the lights, the cameras won’t be operational. Vandalism poses a huge challenge to critical infrastructure,” said Schuller. Community safety activist Redaa Ameerodien, who works all over the Cape Flats, said he felt overjoyed when he heard about cameras being installed in areas they were badly needed. “Especially on Baden Powell, there are constantly people placing bricks in the road or throwing stones at cars. This can cause major accidents and create havoc for the driver,” said Ameerodien. “Also, not everyone can afford to have mechanisms like dash cams, so this will really help when trying to catch criminals.” A police source who spoke to Weekend Argus explained how important installing cameras along the busy stretch would be, especially in aiding the police with investigations. “Jakes Gerwel is also notorious for crimes like hijacking, smash-and-grabs and kidnappings. The (criminal) elements know there is no way (for the authorities) to monitor their movements there, so it's a hot spot.” The source said having a camera on the road would mean that they would have leads to follow up on. “We have seen positive arrests where CCTV cameras are installed. Look at the Mafalala incident, where a man was attacked by a mob in Parkwood. Those cameras along the M5 towards Parkwood helped identify the perpetrators. “Police could look back at footage and make positive arrests. “Then we compare it to Shireen Essop’s case, where she was recently hijacked just off Jakes Gerwel on Weltevreden Road. There are no cameras to look back to, so this is the big difference. “We will truly be so grateful to the City for this. We know it won’t stop the crime, but it will lessen the number of criminals on our streets.” The total proposed capital expenditure for the expansion of the City’s CCTV footprint in 2022/23 is over R50 million. The rollout plan covers a number of issues, including priority areas for CCTV installations; engagement with key stakeholders such as the SAPS, businesses and non-profit organisations; guidelines for using data in determining CCTV locations; partnerships with private CCTV owners; and a standard operating procedure for infrastructure installation. Other areas on the list include central business districts in Goodwood, Wynberg, Kuils River and Parow; Nolungile and Nonkqubela stations; and Hanover Park, Manenberg and Nyanga. Further installations will take place in 37 wards, courtesy of ward allocation funding totalling more than R6.4 million. The City’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith, said that, even though it was widely accepted that cameras did not act as a deterrent to crime and anti-social behaviour, the City had committed itself to increasing its contribution to public safety through human and technological resources. “Our proposed investment in CCTV for the next financial year speaks to that commitment. “These cameras are also a force multiplier, providing crucial intelligence and guidance to officers on the ground. “More than that, our CCTV operators are able to sound the alarm and dispatch appropriate resources, whether to an incident of crime, an accident scene or a fire,” said Smith.