AN ORGANISATION representing overseas trained South African doctors wanting to practice medicine locally, says it is a “national disgrace” that their members’ attempts were deliberately “hindered” by the authorities, yet the process is “seamless” for non-nationals. The sentiments are contained in a strongly worded letter sent by the South African Internationally Trained Health Professionals Association (SAITHPA) to the Presidency this past week. Advocate Rene Govender, the SAITHPA’s legal desk chairperson, also sent letters of demand to the Department of Health (DOH) and the Health Professionals Council of South Africa (HPCSA) on Monday.  Govender expressed displeasure, particularly with the DOH and the HPCSA’s handling of internship appointments. Overseas trained doctors can only practise in South Africa if their credentials are verified by the HPCSA, the statutory body that regulates the country’s healthcare profession. They are then required to write an HPCSA facilitated board exam comprising theory and practical components. Passing makes them eligible for internships at medical facilities and community service, a must for South African practitioners of medicine. Since its formation in 2018 to assist overseas trained doctors get recognition, the SAITHPA has won various court battles with the HPCSA. Their most significant victory came earlier this month when the SAITHPA successfully challenged various HPCSA rules, regulations and requirements that stifle their members’ ambition to work in the country, in the Pretoria High Court. The contested issues included the requirements the HPCSA set for SAITHPA members to qualify for a board exam seat, the exam format, fairness and marking of scripts, and denial of opportunity to some doctors to write the exams. In the  letter to the DOH, the SAITHPA requested that the department provide “cogent” reasons why their overseas-trained members, who passed the board exams, were not handed internship posts, considering the country’s shortage of doctors. The DOH’s newly released process management format for internship was also questioned. Candidates for internship were asked to choose from a list of public healthcare facilities where they preferred posting. But the SAITHPA received complaints from some members whose applications for internship lodged at the beginning of the year were yet to receive attention. The SAITHPA noted that the DOH’s recent midyear intake of interns opened on June 24 and closed three days later ,and the start date of employment was July 1. Govender said this created a “technical conundrum” for their members. “The DOH requires interns to be registered in relevant categories of internship before an employment offer is made. But the HPCSA only acts once the candidate has secured an offer of employment and their administrative processes usually take three to four weeks.” Govender said in that time the employment offer would lapse. She informed the Sunday Tribune that in 2018, the DOH set down a list of guidelines for the HPCSA regarding the registration of overseas trained doctors but that has not been adhered to. Govender found it puzzling how locally trained doctors had a seamless route to internship placements but the same dispensation was not made available to those who were trained internationally. She related how, this week, one of their members was allocated a Durban hospital for internship, but desperately sought her assistance after being told by DOH staff that the post would be “given away” if the HPCSA’s registration letter was not completed and handed to them. When the intern approached the HPCSA about the registration, she was told it would take 21 days. “I am worried because the delay isn't my fault and I know some interns in other hospitals who are also waiting,” said the intern. The SAITHPA gave the DOH seven days to provide a way forward or they would pursue urgent court action to address the “prejudices” of their processes. Similarly, the HPCSA was given the same terms and conditions to address the latest concerns raised by the SAITHPA regarding internships. To the president, Govender wrote: “It is a national disgrace that doctors who obtained qualifications internationally, after successfully completing the South African board examinations find further hindrances disabling their right to practice their profession in their birth country, whilst non-nationals are seamlessly integrated into our health system. “Kindly explain why South African doctors who qualify for internship are not being registered and appointed as interns. Within three years of employment and on completion of their training, they become a valuable public service resource, providing the basic right of access to health care.” She also asked the president to explain why taxpayers monies were wasted on training doctors in other countries, when local infrastructure could have been improved to ensure a greater intake and training of health sciences students. Govender challenged the president to disclose how many non-nationals were registered and employed in the health services, details of agreements signed to provide employment to non-nationals, and audited financial records showing the amounts spent on non-nationals. Another question Govender posed was why recommendations made in a 2015 governmental task team report on the HPCSA were never implemented and “why making contact with the Department of Health was impossible”. The Presidency, DOH and HPCSA did not respond to the Sunday Tribune’s questions. SUNDAY TRIBUNE