Cape Town - The Health Professionals Council of South Africa has revealed that 55 people were arrested for either being bogus doctors or performing acts of fraud between 2021 and 2022. Of the 806 complaints that were received, 732 cases were finalised, and 116 cases were reported to the Police, in which 55 people were arrested. According to their judgments, in recent years, including the periods 2007 to 2009 and 2020, over 20 cases were finalised this year - some of whom were found guilty of unprofessional conduct, inappropriate behaviour or did not give sufficient care or made sexual advances or had their practising licences either suspended or removed, to incidents of malpractice where patients were treated unprofessionally, leading to death or allowing a locum to practice in their offices who were not registered. The documents indicated that some of the doctors, located in Pretoria, Durban and Cape Town, had to pay fines ranging from R25 000 up to R70 000 for misconduct. Dr Pero Emmanuel Ngwashele, whose body was found hidden inside the boot of a car in Gugulethu a week ago, had been arrested following an investigation by the HPCSA. He was not registered with the HPCSA and claimed he had obtained his doctorate in Congo and was subsequently arrested and later granted bail. HPCSA head of corporate affairs Christopher Tsatsawane said earlier this year that the HPCSA found that a doctor who was practising in Stellenbosch was not registered. “The Inspectorate Office conducted an inspection at Dr Mensah’s practice in Stellenbosch. Mr Felix Kapesa Yuma, a Congolese citizen, was found practising as a locum whilst not registered with Council as a medical practitioner. Mr Yuma has been employed by Dr Mensah since November 2021. Mr Yuma was arrested and detained at the Stellenbosch South African Police Service. Dr Mensah will be reported to the Medical and Dental Professions Board for misconduct.” Provincial Department of Health spokesperson Mark Van Der Heever said it was important for the public to report suspicious doctors to their call centre and HPCSA. “Doctors are licensed and registered with the Health Professionals Council of South Africa. Suspicions surrounding private practitioners can be reported to them. If they are in the employ of the public health service, we have a contact centre where issues can be raised, which will require investigation. Our Contact Centre can be reached on 0860 142 142.” Last week he said that doctors, like everyone else, had to follow protocol. “The Department is committed to quality care and ethical standards of providing patient care. This is reflected in all procurement processes as we only procure the services of locum doctors and nurses via registered agencies. Part of the agreement with any agency is that they provide us with locums who are in good standing in terms of professional registration. “The agency is required to check that all the registrations with the HPCSA are valid and that the required medical qualifications are met. “The Department then also verifies the validity of the recommended locum’s credentials on the HPCSA’s website,” he added. Weekend Argus