Cape Town - Maitland community members are raising concerns about the increase in petty crimes taking place at Maitland Cemetery, claiming that the cemetery is transforming into a sanctuary for criminal activity. According to resident Rachel Foster, robbers lurk behind tombstones, preying on people at the cemetery as they wait for the people to walk past and then attack them when they are walking through the cemetery. “The situation at the cemetery is only getting worse for people walking through it as a short cut. They have been robbed of their belongings, and it is also a known hiding spot for criminals after they have broken into nearby homes and cars,” said Foster. Kensington community policing forum (CPF) spokesperson Cheslyn Steenberg said that there had been an increase in reports about robberies in portions of the blocks within the graveyard, and they hope there is better lighting and infrastructure around the cemetery that would help with the safety of the cemetery. “We are also looking for better lighting within the graveyard. From my perspective, I think we really need the graveyard itself to be better secured. There are no cameras, really. There is no lighting. There is only in certain parts of the graveyard you will find lighting. The gates are open nearly 24/7, and the security itself is a problem because of visibility and vehicle accessibility issues. “Now, while the robbery is not the full graveyard, it is portions of blocks within the graveyard, and I have been briefed by the station  commander to indicate that they have been dealing with it. In fact, today, I received a video and some communication from the station commander, where they brought in the SAPS horses. So they are patrolling there within the cemetery for high visibility. They are also looking at intelligence-driven exercises to catch these individuals so they will give us information and will be given to all other law enforcement agencies as well, like law enforcement, City of Cape Town, PRASA and metro police,” said Steenberg. Cape Town Cluster CPF chairperson Justin Kumlehn added that they are aware that the public is sometimes sceptical about opening cases for petty crimes due to the time it takes, but he appeals to the public to report these instances officially as without it being reported, authorities will not be aware and additional resources can not be requested. “We also need to take into account that the rampant and sometimes completely debilitating lack of resources do not help the situation as there is just simply not enough staff to actively police the area, and they, in fact, tend to have a reactive approach rather than a proactive approach which is severely needed. “Crime in general within the Cape Town Cluster is on the increase, and that is purely due to our stations only being reactive. We call on the assistance of security companies and members of the public to please report and be the eyes and ears of the various law enforcement agencies so that we can move away from being reactive and take on a proactive approach,” said Kumlehn. Weekend Argus