Cape Town - Underprivileged youth and unemployed Mitchells Plain residents have signed up for a free computer literacy programme to help improve their chances of entering the job market.  The programme is the brainchild of Rochelle Dick, the director of a local non-profit organisation, Ignite the Light, who partnered with Mitchells Plain ward councillor Ashley Potts to empower residents with computer skills.  More than 120 people have already registered to take part in the project, which is scheduled to begin at the end of July. Participants are expected to receive their certificates at the end of September once they have completed the course. Potts made more than 20 laptops available, while Dick will run the programme by providing basic computer skills and operation of Microsoft software. Potts said the idea came from Dick, who noticed a gap in the skill set of residents. Dick is a computer skills private tutor and volunteered to be part of the programme at no cost. “We were at an event a couple of months back and she shared a vision about this training that she wants to offer free of charge to the community of Mitchells Plain,” Potts explained. Potts said the programme does not have age restrictions and is open to all Mitchells Plain residents.  “The initiative is important for a number of reasons, to empower our young people who have never had the privilege of having access to a computer or laptop and don’t have the capacity to work on the Microsoft package. “There are also many adults who are struggling to get jobs because they do not have this qualification and we also want to prepare people to be employable,” he said. Ignite the Light was launched towards the end of last year and the computer literacy programme is their first major project. She said her vision for the project included listening to the goals of participants, motivating and assisting them to achieve those objectives. “We will also have a session where we will motivate the participants. With the elderly we will also teach them how to register an NPO and we will give guidance on how to start a business. Computer literacy is a foot in for them,” she said. Upon completion of the course, all participants will be given certificates and assisted with their goals. “We will have a networking package for them. We do an assessment and ask what are their end goals. Some want to start their businesses or want to be job ready. If you want to start an NPO, we will help you start your NPO and help to network with relevant stakeholders,” said Dick. One of the participants, Zubaida Slamat, who works as a general labourer at a Mitchells Plain pharmacy, said the course is a chance to improve her skills and help her possibly get a promotion.  “It will help me because everything is advancing and I will be up to date with modern times. It will also help me to stand a chance for better chances at work,” she said. An unemployed Shareema Allie said she was encouraged that older residents were also included.  “So this is something that motivates us to do things we could not achieve (earlier on) in life. There is still much for me to learn and other elderly people,” said Allie. Allie said she plans to use the skills she acquires to help others in her community.  Weekend Argus