Cape Town - It was all joy and laughter for the family of Ruth Johnson, who celebrated her 101 birthday. Born in Kensington in 1921, Ruth prides herself on leading a healthy, respectful lifestyle, of which she believes earned her the long life. Of 11 siblings, Johnson is the only surviving one, and her husband died when she was 77 years old.  Johnson is the third eldest of her late siblings, has six daughters aged between 64 and 78, 22 grandchildren, 26 great-grandchildren and 10 great-great-grandchildren.  "I love them all, they're all mine," she said with laughter. "Thank you to everybody who gave and made my day a wonderful one. I never knew I had so many good people who care about me. You know, I had so much for my birthday; a whole box of chocolates, all sorts of biscuits and and a lot of flowers. I really enjoyed (it)." Asked how she had managed to live this long, she said: "I don’t know, I really don't know. I am just blessed. But you know what, maybe it’s because I never smoked, drank, used make-up and I never had friends. My children were my friends and they’re still my friends even today." She said she used to be independent, always kept her hands busy and would go out for walks on Sundays.  "We honoured our elders, even the late. On Sundays we would visit the graves and just pay respect and talk to them. "I have always been a family person. When I stopped working I started knitting and crocheting with my daughters. That kept us closer." She has since knitted bedspreads for all her daughters and grand daughters, and she is still making new bedspreads for everyone in the family. "I love it when my grandchildren and great-grandchildren wear something I made for them," Johnson said. One of her daughters, Pamela Daniels, said Johnson was still healthy and strong. She never had health issues except for receiving radium treatment for six months, and three months’ chemotherapy when she was diagnosed with cancer 35 years ago. She then had a hip operation in 2020 due to pains when walking.  "She was promised she’d not walk again but after three days, she was up on her feet. We couldn't believe it. Yes, her hearing is low and she refused to use her hearing aids. Either than that, her body has just given up because of age, nothing else. She’s still the same person, but tells everyone how amazing she is every chance she gets,“ Daniels said in amusement.  "Sometimes she wants to scold us, or gossip about each of us to the other sisters." Another daughter, Joy Abrahams, said: "I can say she’s still independent because she likes doing things on her own and hasn’t lost her bubbly personality even though her hearing is a bit of a problem at times. It is such a blessing to have her, and we’re grateful she got to see all four generations of our family. Johnson’s grandson Randall Abrahams, 34, said they cherished every moment and were thankful to have had an opportunity to see and learn humanity from her.