Cape Town- As part of a Mandela Day initiative, Weekend Argus, along with Milnerton Primary School, brought smiles to patients at Maitland Cottage Children’s Orthopaedic Hospital by donating books and cereals yesterday. An administrator for Maitland Cottage Children’s Orthopaedic Hospital, Fiona Kunz, said they were thankful for all the support. “We have been fortunate to have many people support us on Mandela Day, as well as on many other occasions during the year. We are most appreciative that our children are part of this year’s Mandela Day initiative and have received a donation of books and Future Life products from Weekend Argus and Milnerton Primary School. “We are overwhelmed by the generosity of the pupils at Milnerton Primary School and happy to note that they are aware of the importance of sharing books with as many children as possible. The books will bring many hours of joy to our children while they spend lots of time on their beds during their stay in hospital. “Reading and storytelling with children is very important as it promotes brain development and imagination, helps to enhance their creativity and develop language skills. Picture books also play a very important role,” she said. Headmaster of Milnerton Primary School, Warick Middleton, said: “The gift of reading is the most powerful life-long blessing we can give a child. Thanks to the overwhelming generosity of our parents and pupils who made this donation possible.” Marketing co-ordinator for Independent Media, Rehana Rutti, said: “Nelson Mandela stated that education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. Reading creates opportunities for children to grow, acquire knowledge and experience the world in wonderful ways.” Kunz added: “Nelson Mandela, on his birthday, asked the people of South Africa to work in communities, rather than celebrating his birthday. It is a reminder of something that we should do every day and not only on his birthday. “The Maitland Cottage Home Society is a non-profit trust that was formed to financially support the excellent and life-changing work being done at the Maitland Cottage Hospital. We help to maintain and expand the services and facilities this dynamic children’s hospital offers,” she said. Weekend Argus