Cape Town - The concerning state of road surfaces in the City of Cape Town has led to a comparison of the lifespan of neighbouring infrastructure managed either by the provincial or national government. This as some residents complained about poor road maintenance and potholes in areas such as  Observatory, Belhar, Delft, Schaapkraal and the townships.  Streets in residential areas are maintained by the municipality, whereas the highways interconnecting suburbs fall within the ambit of the Western Cape Department of Transport and Public Works.  Sanral is solely responsible for national roads such as the N1 from the Old Oak Interchange northwards, the N2 from the Swartklip Interchange eastwards and the N7 from the Melkbosstrand Interchange northwards. A comparison was done between two differently managed roads less than a kilometre apart between Dunoon and the N7 towards Melkbosstrand. The surfaces were repaired a few months ago but the streets in the residential area are already damaged and unsatisfactory to the residents.  Nearly R3 million was spent on the project from September last year to fix a 10 500m² surface over nine streets. “The total expenditure for the resurfacing and reconstruction of damaged manholes was approximately R2.934m,“ said Rob Quintas, the mayco member for urban mobility. He said the City used asphalt surfacing, a mix that is widely used for resurfacing of residential roads. “This is in line with industry specifications and standards. The paint used on residential roads is retro-reflective paint.  “A thermoplastic retro-reflective paint is generally used only on national routes where the application is done by specific mechanical equipment and for longer lengths of road. The cost of this application is greater.  “In addition, the Dunoon area is prone to high probability of windblown sand and grey water. resulting in the deterioration of paint reflectivity,” he said. A resident, Zukile Klaushe, said potholes reoccurred shortly after the roads were fixed last year.  “I don’t understand why government doesn’t take the people seriously. How can they discriminate between the roads that are not even far from each other? We looked at the N7 and our streets and it’s so obvious that they used cheap material here and they didn’t even put markings in some areas.  “Look at these streets now, you can’t say they were fixed less than a year ago. Only a few are still in good condition, but if you look at the N7 that’s the real tar, the road is smooth. Why?” Klaushe asked. Provincial Transport and Public Works spokesperson Jandre Bakker said the construction materials and methods would depend on the design and specification of the road and that they would not comment on the roads under the control of other spheres of government. "The design and specification of the road would depend on its class which, in turn, depends on a number of factors including the type of traffic and volumes. It should also be noted that sections of the N7 were recently reconstructed for high speed and high traffic volumes, which cannot be compared to urban streets in residential areas,“ he said. Sanral Western Region manager Randall Cable said proactive periodic and preventative maintenance was key to maximising the lifespan of any particular road.  “Roads are constructed and maintained to stringent technical standards applicable to all road authorities,” he said.