Cape Town – Could we see the next “Mr South Africa” coming from Bellville? Shane Myburgh is certainly on the right path after he was crowned Mr Junior South Africa, 2022 last weekend. The Bellville resident was in a class of his own after he walked home with close to eight awards on the night, including best evening wear, best interview and best ramp model. Shane along with the rest of the contestants were interviewed by judges, followed by a casual wear and evening wear ramp walk. Shane said he was happy to walk away with the title. “I had fun, although I could feel the tension between the contestants as everyone wanted to walk home with the title. The ramps are always fun, seeing that my mom and friends are always there to cheer me on. “However, the interviews can be a bit stressful, because you don’t know what questions the judges will ask you. It’s always nice meeting new people, making memories and seeing old faces,” he said. The beat of the music and cheers of the crowd is what keeps Shane motivated on the runway. “I’ve won ‘Mr Petite Teen SA, 2016; ‘Mr Junior Teen SA, 2018’ and many other competitions before. I haven’t won all the time but you learn to win some and lose some. I believe everyone is a winner, just to put your foot on stage makes you a winner.  “I would really love to represent South Africa on the international stage some day,” said Shane, who also enjoys action cricket, ice skating and going to the gym. His mother, Charmaine, said: “He is a soft-hearted, vibrant, energetic young man, who cares about people in his community. Like every mom and son, we do have our differences but we as parents will always support him in his choices.” Chief executive of Pageants SA and Africa Pageants, Carolyn Botha, said: “This is definitely a pageant with a difference where the winners in each age category, together with their runner-up’s are all crowned with various titles which thereby assist them in creating a platform to become involved in charity and community work, thus brightening up the lives of those less fortunate. “Some of the charity work involves visiting the sick and elderly in hospitals, HIV/Aids homes, children’s and homes for the elderly as well as attending fundraising events.” Weekend Argus