Schaapkraal swimming coach Anwar Rinquest has led many young swimmers to victory. But now he has his sights set on building an Olympic-sized swimming pool. Recently, the Marlin Swimming Club coach and founder led 11 of his club members to achieve their Western Province colours. Aside from the victory, Rinquest has taken swimmers to national and international titles. Rinquest said he attributes the success of his club to the children. “The children put in so much work and dedication year after year. They give the sport their all,” he said. Rinquest, with an altruistic heart and spirit, has dedicated many hours of  and money to the success of his swimming club. The Marlin Swimming Club was founded in 2013 but never had a fixed location to host swimming lessons. As luck would have it,  Rinquest was informed that the swimming pool at Virgin Active Gatesville was available. “I chose to give it a shot and spoke to the manager. There was a lot to consider because it meant paying a contract fee, renting space, gym membership etc,” he said. He added: “I took a gamble and my wife, Lameez, wasn’t too impressed with me because this was extra expenditure on our budget.” Rinquest said thankfully at the time, he had excess income from work  in the transport sector, with taxis and trailers. “I started with two swimmers and in the same year, we gained another 40 swimmers for the club,” he said. “Using the gym was a great move for the club, as gym members soon started signing their kids up for lessons too,” he added. At the time, the pool rental was R 1 000 a month, and membership fees were R200 a month. At some point, Rinquest also rented the Retreat municipal swimming pool. It cost him R400 a season to run the classes from two venues. Currently, the Virgin Active rental is R4 500 a month and is funded by team members. The current fee per swimmer is R400 a month. But some of the club members from Hanover Park, Bonteheuwel, Silvertown and Kewtown can’t always afford the fees or travelling to competitions, Rinquest said. In cases where members couldn't afford the costs of competitions or membership fees, Rinquest has set up a fundraising committee. This committee regularly hosts events to raise funds. “Funding is a constant battle. I chip in as much as I can and we also have parents in the club who give without us asking. I am grateful for their generosity,” he said. “The finances are a struggle because this is what is considered an elite sport. Getting the kids to nationals is a costly affair and it can hold them back from entering. “National competitions automatically means it’s self-funded. We are looking at R20 000 per child, per trip. If they don’t have the money, that’s a dream denied.” His plan to build an Olympic-size swimming pool to minimise some of the costs, is a goal he set six years ago but chose to act on when the pandemic hit. “We live in Schaapkraal and we have the land needed for the pool. However, there is no drainage system and the project was placed on hold,” he said. “We picked it up again last year and there are many factors that need to be focused on which we are working on.” The pool project is estimated to cost R2.5 million. “We’re reaching out to companies for sponsorships and hosting fund-raising events regularly,” he said. “The last event we hosted was a comedy show which raised around R50 000 in one evening, so we are going to keep doing that,” he added. Rinquest has worked in water from life-saving, surfing and water polo to swimming and coaching swimming. “I’ve loved any sport that involved water my whole life and that hasn’t stopped,” he said. For as long as he can recall, he’s always been driven by the opportunity to impact someone’s life through sport. “I’m grateful that I’ve had the chance to bring students from a novice to a level of competitiveness,” he said. “My ultimate goal is to sustain my students’ talents and ensure that their talent can come to full fruition.” Weekend Argus Keshia Africa