Cape Town – A patient with kidney failure who needs to undergo daily peritoneal dialysis says she is concerned the current regular rolling blackouts could prove fatal. Carla Britz, who was diagnosed with end-stage kidney failure last year, said the power cuts affect her peritoneal dialysis warm-up process. “I need to warm my dialysis fluid in a big pot... peritoneal dialysis fluid must enter the body warm. If it's too cold or too hot, you can damage your kidneys. Load shedding affects your schedule so you need to find alternative ways to warm your exchange fluid in order to exchange on time. My schedule starts at 8am and ends at 9pm.  “It's important to stay on schedule when doing your dialysis. If not it could cause water to stay behind in the body, leading to fluid retention, which will cause headaches, body aches and make you feel bloated. It could also cause infection and lead to death,” said Britz. End-stage kidney failure means that your kidneys no longer work as they should to meet your body's needs. “One night I was standing in the shower and saw a bruise developed on my lower left leg. I went to my local general practitioner the next day. She said I have too much protein in my urine. She referred me to a specialist and I was diagnosed with end-stage kidney failure. “The latest update on my health is that I am anaemic and have to go for iron infusions once a week. Iron levels are low, causing sleepiness and strange cravings, like eating raw oats and ice.  I am currently on five dialysis exchanges per day to help fight fluid retention. I am on the donor list, but we pray for a live donor as type B blood patients are more likely to wait longer to get a match,” she said. Consultant nephrologist at Groote Schuur Hospital’ renal unit, Dr Zunaid Barday, said about one-third of peritoneal dialysis patients are affected. “Two-thirds are on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis on gravity for fluid to run in and out of the abdomen. The other one-third (about 20, mostly working patients) are on automated peritoneal dialysis, which relies on a machine to do exchanges at night while they are sleeping over eight-to-10 hours. This needs electricity. “During load shedding, the machine stops and they do not get effective dialysis. They do have a few spare bags to do manual peritoneal dialysis, but this is often insufficient. We have had a few patients coming to hospital with fluid overload. This means patients have too much fluid in the body, so patients are puffy with ankle/leg swelling and might develop pulmonary oedema fluid in the lungs,” he said. His message to those doing peritoneal dialysis at home: “Try to look carefully at the load-shedding schedule and adjust your ambulatory peritoneal dialysis time on the machine to fit in with this. Also, ask your peritoneal dialysis [nurse] for extra bags to do manual peritoneal dialysis if you do run into problems.” Weekend Argus