Cape Town - The historical Hout Bay harbour received a bright and lively facelift from three aspiring local artists who painted a huge mural inside the harbour. Blessing Phiri, Marc Tondori and Shawn Ingwane painted a 325m² mural themed Sea life as part of the Harbour Art Walk initiative in Hout Bay. The harbour is one of the Cape Town’s tourist attractions, and this artwork is located inside the harbour, near the main entrance. The initiative is ran by the Intle Art NPO in partnership with local businesses and organisations. It focuses on the artistic entrepreneurial development of young artists from Imizamo Yethu and Hangberg, with the aim of empowering and inspiring the public. Phiri explained: “The murals we do have a big impact in the community, restoring hope and unity through art. After two rough years battling with Covid-19, this is our way of bringing people together and hopefully put smiles on their faces. I love giving back to the communities through my painting and I want someone to look at my paintings and feel happy, free and calm. “I get my inspiration from my surroundings and my life experiences. My artworks are mostly based on sea life and wildlife and I love being colourful in my artworks.” They hope the works attract tourists, educate and revive the beauty that Hout Bay is known for. “l believe our work in the community serves to beautify the walls around us, to enrich people’s love for art and to educate them through the variety of artwork,” added Tondori. Jen McKay, director at Intle Art, explained that this particular mural has been jointly commissioned by some of the local boating charters and is one of these aspiring artists’ huge projects. She commended them for being able to plough back despite their challenging circumstances.  “They are some of a bunch of young artists, most of whom hail from situations of overwhelming disadvantage, who enthusiastically work hard to claim better futures for themselves as well as positively impacting the world around them,” she said. McKay added that the trio are accomplished studio artists whose gallery work can be seen on Intle Art’s walls within the Fine Art Africa Gallery. Weekend Argus