Founder of The Wrapper Co, Nafeesa Arendse, says her business is booming and has reaped the benefits of the Makers Landing programme. Since joining the food incubator programme based at the V&A Waterfront, sales have increased by 800% and she has landed a daily catering contract with an NGO.  Arendse said the programme has helped her to focus on the growth of her business.  “It has made me more assertive and taught me three important values. I’ve learnt to listen, learn and grow. The mentors are extremely helpful, compassionate and help us to remain accountable,” she said. Since its inception 19 months ago, Makers Landing has been the main ingredient that led to the success of many budding food incubators. Food entrepreneurs take part in a five-month mentorship programme before running a business from the thriving Food Market, which showcases the rich story of South African cultures, foods and flavours, from koesisters, bunny chow, morogo, boerewors or bobotie to artisanal goods.  The programme costs R1 750 a month and takes on eight businesses per term. In the three cohorts that have been completed thus far, many incubators have seen a growth in their production and sales figures. In January, Arendse hired part-time staff to cope with the demand. Arendse, 29, left her job in the hospitality industry in 2019 and opened The Wrapper Co in June 2020, which offers a wide selection of punchy flavoured wraps with carefully paired ingredients, inspired by local cuisine. She has expanded her offering to canapés and platters. “I’ve been reminded to focus on my business’s mission and to be ready to pitch at a minute’s notice. What I’ve learnt has made me happier in my life and my business.” Elmarié Rosochacki, the founder of Mondvol Soet, a bakery and confectionery, was also part of cohort two and has since increased sales by 300%. Her redeveloped product range has helped her extend her distribution network to five stores. Mondvol Soet was established at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic after Rosochacki left her job in food management, merchandising and marketing. Coming from a family of bakers, it seemed like the natural progression to turn her talent into her business. Rosochacki said the programme has helped her streamline her focus. “It’s similar to working on a sculpture. There’s always space to refine and add something,” she said. “It has given me so much confidence in what I do, which has added value to my business and its offering.  “I am grateful for the strong sense of community. Being a food entrepreneur is challenging and everyone in my cohort has helped and supported each other,” she added. Programme manager Angelique Smith said their success was attributed to a hands-on approach. “We can provide guidance and mentorship from a business and culinary perspective. Having the programme in-person allows for accountability,” she said. “Our incubatees have access to our commercial kitchen that would usually cost a fortune. This allows them to physically scale and improve their production,” she added. Smith has worked in hospitality for the past 15 years and spent the past six years working with food and beverage start-ups, including the Gin Bar, Neighbourgood and Skinny Scoop. Makers Landing is a R63-million partnership between the V&A Waterfront and National Treasury’s jobs fund programme. Makers Landing has given each business the time and dedication it needs to succeed. “This is a programme that is worth over R15 000 per month. Many people want the help we are offering, but often don’t have the financial ability to support the business,” Smith said. She added: “Subsidising the businesses and making the programme affordable gives them the breathing space to grow.” Weekend Argus Keshia Africa