Cape Town - Nearly 50 people who called an open piece of land in Grassy Park home are now scrambling for a new place to live after an eviction order was carried out.  The group, who spent years living on “Die Plaas” located on the corners of Fishermans Walk and First Road have been removed after a court-mandated eviction was carried out earlier this week.  Weekend Argus reported on the group last month after they refused to move from the land, which they claimed had been left by the previous farmer, to one of the oldest residents who lived there. Western Cape Department of Infrastructure slapped the residents with an eviction order last year and gave them until end of June to move or take up an offer to move to Mfuleni, almost 40km away, by April 30. Residents turned down the offer saying that it would disrupt their daily lives as their children had already begun their schooling in the area and some of the adults already had jobs close by. Raynett Short, 35, who had been living on the land with her two children, said the police cleared out her property completely. “All the people are wandering the streets now, with nowhere to go. I’m sleeping at my sister’s place, but can’t stay there because it’s already full. So myself and my two toddlers are homeless.” Short said the eviction could have been handled in a more decent way. “I told them that I will take down my own structure because I don't want it to get damaged. I wanted to use it again. They didn’t even take note of me and ripped my place apart.  “There’s no way I can use the material again. When I asked if there was anyone I can speak to regarding getting new material from the council, I was just ignored. Sherryzaan Steenkamp, 32, who has lived on the land for more than 10 years, said the majority of the residents attempted to take down their own structures but were not quick enough.  “They didn’t even give us time to move our things, we tried, but if they came to our side and they felt we were taking too long then they would break our structures and throw it on the tractor. “They could have allowed us to keep our material.”  Residents also said their animals were taken away after they were informed they were to be handed over to the SPCA. Jaco Pieterse, chief inspector of the SPCA said some of the horses were brought to their facility for safekeeping. “The horses will be kept until the owners can find alternative accommodation for them. The horses were in fair condition.” The department’s Jandré Bakker, confirmed that the eviction was carried out by the sheriff on Wednesday, with SAPS, Law Enforcement, Traffic Services and SPCA on site. “Most of the personal belongings have been transported by the sheriff to a place of choice of the unlawful occupants.  “The remaining personal belongings have been removed and will be stored for seven days in line with the court order.  “The informal and unlawful structures have been removed and the remaining rubble is in the process of being completely cleared.” Bakker said alternative accommodation was identified in terms of the City’s Emergency Housing Program.  “The unlawful occupants were provided with options for relocation but no response was received from the occupiers in this regard by the deadline,” he said. Weekend Argus