Cape Town - For many, an eco-friendly world is a dream, however, this vision was the idea behind a virtual Museum of Plastic 2121. The museum is an imagining of what we hoped the world would look like in 2121 (“single use plastics will be a thing of the past and instead of littering our planet, they will only be found in museums”), where things have thrived for both the planet and humanity.  It also tells the story of plastic, its history and science, and its impact on our environment. It showcases the work of artists, who have painted real-world plastic-pollution-themed murals.  This was converted into VR displays and can be seen in the virtual reality space of the Museum of Plastic 2121. The museum was a collaboration between Greenpop, an environmental NPO, Baz-Art, an urban art organisation, Cooperative Innovations, a UK immersive technology studio, and the British Council. A documentary was recently made about this. Greenpop co-founder, Misha Teasdale, said the Museum of Plastic 2121 is the first virtual reality museum of its kind. “The video takes viewers through the creation of the Museum of Plastic 2121, showcasing its virtual reality integration and why a future without plastic is so important, and what each of us can do to help make this future a reality. “When the pandemic hit, the world shifted and we all needed to adapt. The museum is an example of this adaptation and how when we all come together change is possible and every positive act for the planet has a powerful ripple effect. The hope is that this virtual reality space will activate and mobilise change in the offline space – in the real world. “Environmental lovers are invited to be a part of the project by getting active to reduce their plastic use in their everyday lives. We all have the capacity to be activists, all you need is a desire to start and to do good for the planet in whatever way you can,” he said. Teasdale said it was important to launch this during Plastic Free July, a global movement where people come together to reduce plastic use. “Plastic never fully breaks down and the detrimental effects of microplastics are being discovered more and more each year. At Greenpop, we believe every action matters, big or small, and that change is possible when we all take action and mobilise together.  “By raising awareness around plastic and imagining a future without plastics through the Museum of Plastic 2121, we hope to spark something in viewers that will get them to take action right where they are,” he added. Co-founder of Baz-Art, Alexandre Tilmans, said: “Throughout history, art has been a powerful medium to communicate a message and change the world. We’re hoping this experience engages a global audience and shows people we can change our future if we act now.  “This is not your average museum. It comprises ground-breaking creative commissions that bring together art, science and digital technology to create an unforgettable immersive experience.” Weekend Argus