THE troubled municipality of Witzenberg is making headlines for all the wrong reasons again – this time for fraud.  Allegations recently emerged that three law enforcement officers in the municipality were appointed on a fraudulent basis. They apparently did not complete matric.  A whistle-blower approached the municipality’s deputy director of finance, André Raubenheimer, in writing about the alleged fraudulent recruitment process, which saw non-qualifying officers granted the jobs. Raubenheimer said the whistle-blower approached the director of corporate services, Monwabisi Mpeluza, and informed him of the said non-compliance -- but it is alleged that no action was taken.  In the report to the speaker, which Weekend Argus is in possession of, the three officers are reported to not be in possession of matric certificates, which was a minimum requirement for the posts. “On May 16, I was approached by a whistle-blower who informed me that during the recruitment and selection process of the law enforcement officers, three candidates did not meet the minimum criteria. They did not have matriculation certificates. Three names were provided,” read the report. Raubenheimer said he investigated the veracity of the complaint and found that two of the three names provided did not meet the criteria of the matric certificate, and should not have been shortlisted or appointed. “The one candidate clearly indicated on the application that he only has Grade 11, and the other candidate indicated that he has Grade 12, but only added a subject certificate. “On the memorandum for the approval of the candidates, where (Ingrid) Barnard, Director Corporate Services Monwabisi Mpeluza as well as municipal manager David Nasson should sign - Ms Barnard indicates that candidate 13 does not qualify, but approval was still granted for appointment. “In summary, this means that at least three people were appointed that did not meet the criteria of the advertisement,” said Raubenheimer in the report. In an interview with Weekend Argus, Raubenheimer said the letter was shared with the relevant stakeholders. He is still waiting for a response.  The mayor of the municipality, Hendrik Smit, directed questions to the municipal manager, Nasson, who could not be reached following several attempts. Raubenheimer alleged in the report that the appointment of the officers amounted to irregular expenditure. “If the investigation finds that the facts are correct, council must consider recovery of the funds and deal with this in terms of the MFMA chapter 15,” he said. The accountant of the municipality, Sandy Peres, was afforded an opportunity to respond, but refused to comment.