Cape Town - The Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) is once again embroiled in an alleged rape incident at one of its private residences.  The incident allegedly happened at the Cape Suites Apartments (CSA) also known as the Best Western Hotel on Saturday last week, and students are demanding accountability. It is alleged that a 37-year-old employee at CSA is behind the latest incident.  It follows an incident where an 18-year-old first-year student from Oudtshoorn was also allegedly raped on the Wellington campus during a social event at the institution in May. Both CPUT and CSA have confirmed that the alleged perpetrator was an employee at CSA. “We are aware of the incident in question,” said CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansely. “The management of Cape Suites immediately investigated the incident after it was reported, and alerted SAPS who arrested the alleged perpetrator.  “The accused remains in custody, and the university has initiated disciplinary proceedings.” She said they have strengthened security on site by adding security patrols and strengthening access control. “The victim has been fully supported by the university and has been offered the requisite counselling and other support which may be required.  “We will continue to work with SAPS on this matter until its conclusion,” said Kansely. The EFF Student Command held various pickets demanding action from both the residence and institution.  The organisation said the matter was not handled in a manner that they would have liked. “We encountered great arrogance and ignorance from the side of the management of CSA, they know the identity of the perpetrator, it's one of their staff members but they do not want to disclose to students the name. “It makes no sense that all-female residences have a Res Parent who is a male.  “Clearly, he does not understand how the students feel about this,” the EFFSC said. Ashley Groenewaldt, general manager at CSA said: “CSA management confirms that a young lady resident at the property was recently assaulted. “An alleged male perpetrator has been arrested, appeared in court on July 19, 2022, and has been remanded in custody, pending a further court appearance to consider his bail application.” He said the suspect was a recently-appointed member of the CSA maintenance team. “As per labour legislation, the alleged perpetrator remains suspended until his disciplinary hearing has been finalised.  “CSA will move for immediate dismissal.” Police person Sergeant Wesley Twigg confirmed that the suspect appeared in court on Tuesday and would appear again next week for a bail application.  Weekend Argus