Cape Town - Pupils at Edward Primary School in Elsies River went home with a smile on their faces after the Kasi Angels Foundation together with Weekend Argus contributed close to 400 pairs of school shoes on Friday. The foundation is on a mission to collect and donate 1 million pairs by 2025 through its #1MillionPairs campaign. According to founder Gerald Nomlala, in the four years since he started the campaign 42 000 shoes had been donated. Nomlala, 51, said the project was inspired by his experience of spending three years without shoes in his primary school days in the 1970s, which led to bullying by fellow pupils. “To me, this is therapeutic. When I think about my upbringing, it’s very sad because (fellow pupils used to bully me). So that is why I focus on helping children with shoes for free,” he said. He said parents might notice that their children did not want to attend school anymore and came up with excuses such as feeling sick because they were embarrassed about having to wear broken shoes and were teased by their fellow pupils. “So as Kasi Angels, we try to come and see what role we can play in making sure that children gain that confidence and are happy to go to school. We are also asking the government and corporate companies to come on board and assist us in giving kids shoes,” said. He said the Covid-19 pandemic was a major setback in that donations took a dive, but he remained hopeful that the foundation would meet its targets. “We are hopeful that by 2023, in May, we will meet 100 000 (pairs). We will fight until we reach 2025 when we are hoping to have donated 1 million pairs,” he said. At Kasi Angels events, you will find Nomlala wearing a pair of old shoes he bought 26 years ago which he named “Van der Merwe”.  “I have to wear these shoes so that I can be on the same level with kids that have broken shoes. The name of these shoes is a character who is a farmer that works hard and he does not care about the shoes, only cares about producing the food to feed the nation,” he said. Nomlala said he was struggling to find space for all the shoes in his flat and appealed for help from anyone who could provide a storage facility in a safe place. The principal of Edward Primary School, Hubert Weber, was humbled by the donations. “We are situated in an impoverished community. We have more than 500 children and the fundraising has been difficult.  “The donation has been the best thing that has ever happened in our school because the parents rely on little incomes. “We are privileged to have him today and I just wish more companies could buy into this,” said Weber. The chairperson of the school’s governing body, Shirley Field, said Elsies River was riddled with crime and drugs, which left many children uncared for. She said she ran a soup kitchen that fed children in the community. “This area is a poor community and what Kasi Angels did speaks very big. Every morning I stand in the gate and I see many children who are not dressed well. “Some of the parents of these kids are on drugs and the children are not taken care of. I am their mother even outside the school,” she said. Weekend Argus