Cape Town - Kids aged five to 10 and their parents will be able to display their culinary competence and love for food through a cooking programme hosted by Studio H. The session will introduce them to flavour profiles, the origins of ingredients and get them thinking together in small groups. They will then share their ideas with the rest of the participants. The event takes place at Makers Landing at the V&A Waterfront on July 30. Founder of Studio H, Hannerie Visser, said the parents will follow their children’s lead in this session.  “We would like to get kids comfortable in a working kitchen (such as) teaching them how different foods can be prepared, how taste works as well as the importance of not wasting food. “It’s very important for kids and parents to bond and an excellent way to do that is through cooking together.  “According to research, cooking with children can increase their self-esteem, creativity, teamwork, and acceptance. In addition, it brings the family closer because it allows everyone to become a part of the journey of making food,” she said. Chief executive of South African Urban Food and Farming Trust, Kurt Ackermann, said kids connect with their families, culture and society through food. “Their identity is shaped by food from the earliest ages, as is their health. And the health of our children is a key indicator of the health of our society. A programme that helps kids understand various aspects of cooking. (This includes) ingredients, methods, nutrition, traditions and supports healthy (and happy) lives, families and society.  “Their knowledge and confidence will only build over time, giving them a foundation for a healthy life,” he said. Studio H is a culinary-minded design team, which offers creative brand solutions such as new product development to innovation workshops and trend reports. “Our work is driven by the senses, defined by science and innovation, and our approach is deeply rooted in exploring a sustainable future,” Visser added. Tickets cost R650 (one adult and a child) and can be purchased through the Food Dialogues website. Stand a chance to win tickets to Dialogue through Food. EMAIL WAFOOD and your name to jellybeanclub@inl. co.za to attend the event on Saturday, 30 July from 10h00 – 12h00 at Makers Landing (V&A Waterfront). The competition closes Wednesday. Terms and conditions apply. Weekend Argus