Cape Town – Come dance and boogie with five divas and a university choir at the opening of the Artscape Theatre Centre Women’s Month celebrations on August 1. Hosted by ATKV-Crescendo, a talent development programme aimed at equipping songwriters with expertise, who has roped in local musician, Anna Davel, as producer of Femme Fantasties and will serve as mentor for the organisation. Davel will also take to the stage alongside Sama nominated singer and songwriter and ATKV-Crescendo product, Jodi Jantjies, Vicky Sampson,Tracey-Lee Olivier, Zimbini and the UWC Creative Arts Choir. Jantjies said it was an honour to be part of the prestigious production. She said: “It’s always been a dream of mine to be part of a production that’s on the Artscape stage.  “I have to pinch myself every time I remember that I’m going to share the stage with South African icon Vicky Sampson among others.  “Vicky especially has been a staple in the coloured community and has always been a representation of what it is to be successful in a coloured capacity. “Anna Davel has been my mentor for all my time with the ATKV Crescendo and to be able to work with her as her peer is just a testament of my growth as an artist. I’m very excited.” ATKV-Crescendo project organiser, Morné van Staden, said: “My production offers the public the opportunity to experience Jodi in an international standard with the phenomenal guest artists who are part of the production.  “ATKV-Crescendo proudly presents this production and knows that everyone who will attend it will become instant (and life-long) fans of Jodi Jantjies.” Chief executive at the Artscape Theatre Centre Marlene Le Roux said: “Every year during Women’s Month, we at Artscape as a collective raise our voice using the arts as a conduit through the Artscape Women Humanity Arts Festival.  “(We will)  highlight the profile, power, plight, and performance of women while equally we celebrate the great strides we have made. “I am delighted that after two years of gruelling lockdown regulations that restricted theatre capacity we will be able to showcase this amazing production to a packed full house as these “femmes” belt out their voices.  “I'm even excited to see these powerful women on stage.” Regarding women in South Africa, Davel said they were the glue to keeping society grounded. “They have to jump over many hurdles and cross many mountains to do the most basic things. In South Africa, such a huge part of our community lives in extreme poverty and it is a miracle how women in the country do so much with so very little. “I will celebrate those women who against all odds do magnificent inspiring work with so little assistance from the government.  “Next month I will take my hat off to all those angels walking on this earth who are looking after vulnerable children and people,” she said. Tickets cost between R150 and R280 and can be purchased at Shoprite, Checkers or via Computicket. Weekend Argus