Cape Town - The embattled Kannaland municipality has voted in favour of the removal of three Independent Civic Organisation of South Africa (Icosa) councillors, including former mayor Jeffrey Donson, over fraud allegations.  On Friday, the council voted four to two in favour of the removal of councillors who occupy the three of the seven seats in the municipality.  Despite having more votes that the other three parties represented in council, the municipality is governed through an ANC and Kannaland Independent Party union. The vote, which was confirmed by Kannaland mayor Nicky Valentyn, was the first of two steps to get Donson and two of his counterparts, Werner Meshoa and Hyrin Ruiters, expelled from the municipality.  This came after Speaker Rodge Albertus drafted a report which outlined findings into allegations of fraud against all three councillors.  Since the motion passed, there’s a strong possibility that MEC for Local Government, Anton Bredell, who has the final say in the matter, might uphold the decision. Bredell is set to receive the report by either Monday or Tuesday, Weekend Argus understands.  Should Bredell decide to uphold the decision, it would open the door for three by-elections to take place once the vacancies have been declared by the Electoral Commisison of South Africa (IEC). Donson is the ward councillor for Ladismith, Meshoa for Calitzdorp and Ruiters for Zoar.  Acting municipal manager Ian Avontuur confirmed the results of the vote to Weekend Argus.  “We also said that they shouldn’t participate in any council activities up until such a time that the MEC had made a decision on the issue,” Avontuur said.  “Four councillors voted for the motion and two against,” he said, adding that “the involved councillors couldn’t vote for themselves”.  “So when, Donson’s item, for instance, was on he was requested to leave the council.” According to Albertus’s report, seen by Weekend Argus, the councillors were found guilty of fraud in relation to fruitless and wasteful expenditure incurred by the municipality. “I find that they are guilty of gross dishonesty, fraud, theft, corruption and bringing the municipality into disrepute,” read the report. According to the report, almost R1.5 million was earmarked for Twilight Youth Connection, an NPO, and Fire Explosion Trading. But Donson, Meshoa and Ruiters “appropriated part or all the funds to further their own and or the interests of their political party Icosa”. The trio, according to the report, also submitted a series of fraudulent travel and accommodation claims under the pretence of performing official duties which resulted in fruitless, and wasteful expenditure in the amount of nearly R50 000. In another finding, the report said: “The councillors gave statements and information to the public, municipal officials, and the media, riddled with misrepresentation, non-disclosure, misdescription and deceptiveness regarding litigation in the Western Cape High Court.” It further stated: “This was done by the councillors whilst instigating vicious service delivery disruptions, unlawfully occupying municipal workplaces, and causing general confusion and chaos. “(This) with the intention of wrongfully taking over control of the municipal council by claiming the executive positions they used to possess before being removed by motions of no-confidence.” Both Meshoa and Ruiters confirmed to Weekend Argus that they were aware of the outcome of the sitting.  “The DA and ANC councillors voted for this illegal action, surely they don’t know legislation,” Meshoa said.  “This powers has not been the function of council nor Speaker. They (have) been advised by an incompetent acting municipal manager without qualifications and experience.” Donson couldn’t be reached for comment.  Donson and Meshoa were, respectively, the mayor and deputy mayor of Kannaland and were ousted in a motion of no confidence in January, barely two months after their election. The motion was tabled after Donson and Meshoa refused to step down after it emerged they had criminal convictions for rape and fraud respectively. Weekend Argus