Cape Town - Residents of the Elsies River community are outraged by the recent string of shooting incidents in the area after police were called to attend to a crime scene where a 15-year-old boy was fatally wounded and a 17-year-old injured. According to reports, charges of murder and attempted murder  were opened for investigation after the suspects fled the scene and were nowhere to be found. Provincial police spokesperson, Captain Frederick van Wyk, said that given the incident, the possibility that it may be gang-related is being investigated “The circumstances surrounding a shooting incident yesterday at about 4.30pm at the corner of Norwood Road and 12th Avenue, Leonsdale, Elsies River, where a 15-year-old boy was fatally wounded and a 17-year-old injured are under investigation. “A murder and an attempted murder case was opened for investigation. The injured victim was taken to a medical facility for medical treatment. “The unknown suspects who fled the scene in an unknown direction are yet to be arrested. The possibility that this incident can be gang related will be investigated,” said Van Wyk. Chairperson of the Elsies River CPF, Hamish Arries, said that the killing of the 15-year-old boy has angered the community, as this cruel act against the community has robbed them of a young life. “The killing of this 15-year-old boy is one too many and we can no longer tolerate this. “We can no longer allow ourselves to be held in a vice grip of lawlessness and do nothing about it. Someone must know or have seen who pulled the trigger and must come forward. “Our collective condemnation of such cruel acts must be heard throughout our streets and every household. Each and everyone in this community must come forward and play their part by joining our Neighbourhood Watches and Street Committees. “We have a responsibility to keep our community safe and look out for each other. We as the community need to become active and consistent in community policing so that these criminal individuals who hold us captive in our community can wake up to the reality that crime does not pay,” said Arries. Weekend Argus