Ultramarathon runner and water activist Mina Guli is in South Africa and will be making her way to Cape Town to continue her 200 marathons in one year campaign to raise awareness of the water crisis.  Guli is an Australian businesswoman and the CEO of Thirst Foundation, an NPO focused on pioneering radical change and action towards the water crisis. Currently in Gauteng, Guli is expected to head to KwaZulu-Natal and then Cape Town next week, where she will be taking part in a community run as part of her marathon running. Parts of the Western Cape are still experiencing drought conditions following below-average rainfall over the last few years.  Her journey began on World Water Day in March, in Uluru in Central Australia. The 200-marathon trip will culminate on the same day next year in New York City. The dates were chosen as the last ultramarathon will coincide with the UN summit on water. Guli said running in South Africa was significant as this was where she dedicated her life to solving the global water crisis. “When I was standing on the bank of the Orange River, I heard the pain in the voices of the farmers and park rangers,” she said. “They told me that as the river dried up, so did their incomes, livelihoods and futures, and I was shocked.” The Australian philanthropist said hearing these stories is what led her to dedicate her life to attempting to solve the global water crisis.  “We need water for our food, energy and our planet,” she said. The ultramarathons are in a bid to gain commitments from 200 companies to take action on the water crisis ahead of the UN summit on water. Guli said she was exposed to the true power of water when she visited Beaufort West. “It can change lives. I see the power it holds from young farmers to children skipping school while waiting for water to be delivered.” She added: “Water is at the heart of everything we do, build, eat and use every single day. Yet this essential resource is still under stress.” Guli’s Thirst Foundation has partnered with the company Bayer for the campaign.  “We are proud to partner with Mina and the Thirst Foundation to play our part in ensuring a water-secure future,” said Klaus Eckstein, chief executive officer of Bayer South Africa. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa