Gender-based violence (GBV) has reached new alarming heights in South Africa and by the looks of things, this will not change any time soon.  Recent crime statistics showed that the first three months of 2022 were brutal for women and children of this country.  Murder, attempted murder and assault GBH of women all recorded double-digit increases. Often victims are working but employers are not providing adequate support other than giving them time off.  Reported incidences of GBV and sexual assaults are also frequently found to have occurred in the workplace or in the line of duty. Smita Narsi, head of CSI at Bettabets, a South African gaming company said workers affected by violence and sexual assault suffer daily challenges in fulfilling their duties and private sector employers who are in a position to be of help have a moral obligation to do so. “It is time for companies to put their money where their mouth is when it comes to campaigning against GBV, she said.  “Businesses are just as affected as other stakeholders by the climbing numbers of incidences of domestic violence, rape, femicide and other crimes for whom women are mostly the victims.” She added that many women end up leaving their jobs, taking long bouts of leave and being rendered unable to be economically active because of the mental and physical effects of GBV. Nozipho Mbane*, 36, a victim of GBV said her perpetrator first isolated her from friends and family. She had to go work while enduring abuse at home.  “I did not know who to talk to at work and I do not think we had policies dealing with such matters. I ended up quitting work and changed my residential area to get away from my abuser.” Mbane’s story is similar to many other women in South Africa who despite government initiatives, marches and legislative continue to suffer. Courts are also slow dealing with cases and there is a high number of case withdrawals in the country due to various factors.  Narsi said GBV can’t be eradicated only by urging survivors to come forward.  Though all companies presumably have procedures in place that allow for victims to report perpetrators of undesirable behaviours in the workplace, these should be developed further. “Discouraging untoward behaviour between the sexes should extend beyond violence and into catcalling, harassment, degrading comments, sexual intimidation, and sexism as a whole. “It starts by providing safe spaces for the survivors among our staff to come forward, speak out, and open up about their ordeals,” says Narsi.  “We need to become the allies we purport to be in media campaigns in our daily work lives, so that the people behind our brands get the help they need.”