Cape Town - With Mandela Day in sight, Gugulethu community members have started a petition to the City, urging that action be taken to restore the dignity of struggle heroes who are buried at the NY5 cemetery. This comes after residents cited that the cemetery's deteriorating condition has led to it being used as a soccer field, a washing line, and ‘other uses not intended for a cemetery’. Secretary of Gugulethu Uprising, Marc Matebe said that they have had endless meetings with authorities and requested that the city fence the cemetery with same type fencing used at the Nyanga Rugby stadium, however, nothing had been done so far. “What surprised me was that same fence that we wanted for the cemetery was used for Nyanga, because the fences that have been put up at the cemetery are vandalised, stolen, and damaged.  “We asked the City to employ neighbourhood watches there and they told us they don't have money to pay for the neighbourhood watches.  “Tombstones are stolen at the cemetery and used as stoeps at the informal settlements across the road from the cemetery. Kids play soccer in the graveyard and we once approached the parents about their kids playing in the graveyard, and they told us their kids have nowhere else to play. The people who live at the informal settlements don't worry about the cemetery because they bury their folks in the Eastern Cape in their yards,” said Matebe. Petitioner,  Xolile Ndzoyi said that the dignity of those buried in the Gugulethu Graveyard is not respected at all, and it appears as though officials who are supposed to manage it do not prioritise its maintenance. “There is a particular segment of society in our area that does not care about it and it pains us, because we have our family members who are resting in peace there and do not seek to be disturbed.  “On a daily basis the community of Gugulethu witness daily the graveyard being used as a soccer field, a washing line, and many other distasteful uses not intended for a cemetery. “The dignity of the Gugulethu Graveyard  is not respected at all. It appears as though officials who are supposed to manage this space, do not seem to treat it as a priority. Surely they also witness what goes on there, which has been the case for a very long while now, with minimal remedial action implemented to avoid history repeating itself. “The cemetery holds and carries a lot of heavyweights who were part of the struggle in this country in either politics, sport or several other significant occupations. Local struggle stalwarts resting in that cemetery include people such as the Gugulethu 7, Dora Tamana and Oscar Mpetha and entertainer Ray Ntlokwana. Given this, we wish the cemetery be preserved,” said Ndzoyi. Community service and health Mayco member, Patricia van der Ross, said that while the city is aware of the vandalism, members of the public are encouraged to report cases of vandalism to the City’s Public Emergency Communication Centre “The City is aware of the vandalism concern regarding fencing at Gugulethu Cemetery. Vandalism of City facilities, including the theft of fencing has become a daily occurrence throughout the metropole. This is costing departments millions of rand to replace or fix, only to get stolen again. “That said, security personnel has been deployed to patrol and safeguard the premises until a fence is erected, and this personnel will also communicate to herders should their cattle enter the premises illegally. “Members of the public are also encouraged to report cases of vandalism to the City’s Public Emergency Communication Centre by dialing 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline,” said Van der Ross Weekend Argus