KEAGAN MITCHELL Cape Town - Concerns have been raised over the safety of players on soccer fields across the city as the amount of deaths continue to rise. According to data collected by local photographer Rashied Isaacs, between 2007 and May 18, nine players and one referee died during amateur football matches and another player during a training session in Cape Town. Since then two more players have died on our fields. From the 13 who died, 10 players and one referee were between the ages of 26-65, while the other two were 16. Isaacs said: “The age group (between 26-65) of the latest disease show as per my data collection that they are at high risk in the sport as no pre-screening is done before the commencing of a new season. This coupled with the absence of first responders at the field of play make players vulnerable. “My heart goes out to the family members, who have lost loved ones on our fields. What more must I do to get the concerns across to the decision-makers? Social media posts and media coverage on the subject matter will hopefully highlight the plight. “The problem needs a comprehensive approach by all involved with education and training of officials being high on the agenda. The old adage rings true, ‘failing to plan will lead to planning to fail’,” he said. Bayview FC chairperson Mark Rodrigues said this will continue to happen until we get paramedics on our fields. “Watch every moment of your players on the field but more importantly make sure there are paramedics nearby because if anything happens (to them), he or she has a 50% chance of survival. “Seeing someone close to you pass away was very difficult. My team at that time was around him. He was my captain and was someone who followed my ways on the field,” he said.  Rodrigues is referring to Imtieyaaz Wagiet, who collapsed during a soccer match against Strandfontein AFC at Westridge Sport Field in 2019. Reports by his family indicated cardiac arrest was the cause of death. Former Cape District Local Football Association (LFA) president Nathan Less said it is sad to know that we still experience such tragic incidents on our fields. “It must be one of the most painful and emotional experiences for teammates and opposition players on the field when this happens (to see someone collapse). Not forgetting the match officials who have to make decisions while hopefully first aid or first responders are attending to a player in this situation. “A few years ago I was called to the Chukker Road Sports Complex when an over-35 player collapsed on the field. By the time I got there, a police van was on the field and cordoned off an area where the player was laying covered. This image is still so vivid in my mind and one I hope never to witness again. “Player safety is key. However, it is the responsibility of player, coach, manager and club to raise awareness of the contribution their respective members and administrators can make and should be making,” he said. Head of communications for the provincial Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Tania Colyn, said: “We encourage all those organising and participating in matches to ensure that health and safety measures are always adhered to.  “This includes having trained and qualified paramedics at matches as needed. We also encourage players to only participate if they feel well enough to do so and to rather rest if needed,” she said. South African Football Association (Safa) Cape Town president Bennett Bailey said even if it is one player (who dies on our fields), it is one too many. “The fitness levels of players is something which is a personal thing. People are struggling to survive, if there is an option to pay R300 for a check-up or R300 towards the household, you know the answer then. That is the struggle that we find ourselves in. “What we can do is send our officials for first aid training which we did this past week. Two received their certificates and along with the Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, we are going to have roll-outs across all LFAs. It is not only going to be restricted to soccer but to other sporting codes as well,” he said. Weekend Argus