Cape Town - In an attempt to restore Princess Vlei to its former glory, two environmentalists joined forces to create a documentary showcasing their journey.  Crammed with interviews and in-depth analysis from experts, the film, Dressing the Princess, follows the peregrination of Denisha Anand and Alex Lansdowne, two urban environmentalists, as they work to restore the once-iconic wetland.  Princess Vlei is the gateway to the wetland system that runs through Grassy Park and was declared a provincial heritage site in October.  The vlei, which gleaned its name from an indigenous Khoi princess who, according to lore, was attacked and killed in the mountains by invading European sailors, became a safe haven for the surrounding community who would gather to fish, swim, and carry out traditional ceremonies.  Anand, an environmental activist and educator, told Weekend Argus she was so passionate about the project that she started a crowdfunding campaign to fund the biopic.  “We need to rehabilitate our eco-system,” Anand said.  “The rehabilitation of eco-systems is very connected to the rehabilitation and restoration of communities… It’s something I’m very passionate about.” She added: “We can’t have the rehab of the one without the other. And I wanted to showcase the importance of this vlei.” Anand said conservation throughout the city and many regions of the world has been dominated by colonial ways of thinking, involving the separation of humans and nature, where communities are removed from their land and excluded from decision-making.  Considering that local and indigenous communities protect 80% of the world’s biodiversity, it is imperative, according to Anand, that the new model of conservation is centred around social justice and co-existence between communities and nature. Although there is no release date yet, the film, which is directed by Canadian film director, Carter Kirilenko, Anand is optimistic that it will be released before the beginning of next year. “We’re hoping for it to be released before the end of the year, we don’t have an exact date yet, but we are in production.” Weekend Argus understands that the production will wrap up next week. It took three months to film.  “After production, it will be released in South Africa and distributed globally.” Dressing the Princess will also be used as a tool to help mobilise more young “citizen scientists” from the Cape Flats to take part in the community restoration of Princess Vlei.  Lansdowne, a self-proclaimed ethnobotanist and a City of Cape Town councillor, educates youth on the process of ecological restoration at Princess Vlei, while also fighting to restore the biodiversity of dozens of natural sites across the city. “Cape Town is losing biodiversity faster than any other city on earth. Conservation efforts are needed across the city in order to help restore biodiversity before it’s too late,” read a part of the film’s synopsis.  Western Cape government said the declaration of the vlei as a heritage site highlighted the need for serious and focused conservation attention from all parties. Weekend Argus