Cape Town - An aspiring rugby player, and possibly future accountant,  is raising funds to make his trip to Ireland a reality later in the year. Ronaldo Lakay was selected to be part of the Southern Cape Sport Tour in October. He had participated at the provincial schools tournament held in George in April. Should he be successfully, Ronald and his team are expected to play three matches, get exposure to international clinics and enjoy sightseeing in Dublin and Limerick. He has been selling takeaways and doing raffles at his home on weekends to raise the much needed R40 000. The amount will cover major aspects of the trip, including flight tickets, catering and accommodation. “I work hard to prepare for this trip, it’s really a big thing for me. I was overwhelmed and couldn’t believe that I made it. I have since been brainstorming ideas to make sure I am ready when they day comes. “Every morning I go to gym at school, and after school I have a rugby practice for two hours. On my off days I do some extra exercises to improve my skills. I’m looking forward to playing some good rugby and exploring the country, and to making new friends from other nations,” said Ronaldo. “It started playing back in primary school and just when I began to play rugby I immediately felt like it was the sport for me, I never looked back.” The Grade 10 pupil from Bellville-South High learned to be financially responsible from a tender age as he aspires to become a management accountant in future.  “Although I’d like to be a professional rugby player, I prioritise my academics as well. I make sure the two are well balanced, and whenever I feel like taking a break from my normal routine and need to cool of my mind, I go for a beach walk or visit the nature reserves. I love nature too,” said Ronaldo. His father, Andrew Kakay, said: “As his parents we feel proud of the achievement because he always wanted to become a great rugby player. He is dedicated and we can only wish him the best.” For more information about donations, call his Andrew Kakay at 061 648 6513.