Cape Town - Local artists are set to take to the stage in aid of Autism Western Cape at a benefit concert. The “Zayn Adams Tribute”, which started yesterday, aims to raise about R250 000 in support of autism. Organiser, Danyaal Adams, son of the late Zayn Adams, said the fund-raiser is something his father would have done.  “He was a people’s person and helped whenever he could, and I have always wanted to honour him in a meaningful way.  “When I heard about the situation of Autism Western Cape, I knew we’d be doing more than just a monetary donation, but raising awareness too. The organisation is one of many unsung heroes who play a crucial role building lives of the less-acknowledged.  Through this tribute I believe we’d be giving a voice to the voiceless children living with autism. I hope people will come in their numbers to the event. Even if a person is unable to attend, they can sponsor someone with a ticket and help us reach our target,” Adams said. Zaida Frank-Ebrahim, Autism Western Cape operations manager, confirmed the concert would help alleviate a shortfall of R500 000 from their annual budget. “We have had a budget cut from the government and some of our funders, which has left us in dire need for support to keep afloat. “We run outreach programmes and educational training across the Western Cape. We reached more than 2 000 needy beneficiaries in the first quarter of the previous financial year.  “And I can assure you the demand keeps growing. It is no secret that we can’t do it alone and initiatives like this always help alleviate the burden,” said Frank-Ebrahim. She appealed to the public to support the concert. The organisation advocates and empowers those with autism, through partnerships with different services providers as well as supporting and creating educational opportunities for them. Patrons would be treated to a newly released song titled “You're not alone”, featuring 20 artists. Adams said it is dedicated to all who have lost loved ones, and the tribute honours not just his father but all departed influential artists. He said his father, Zayn Adams, was an influential activist who used his voice to heal and give people hope.  “My father was dedicated to working with underprivileged communities, contributing to building churches and mosques, supporting homes for the aged, and even paid fees for some struggling young people at the time,” Adams said. Among the performing artists is Nur Abrahams who said, “When I received the call I had only one answer, ‘Yes’. For uncle Zayn I will be there… We are giving back our love for this masterful legend to celebrate his life and legacy and also his family. And to his son, Danyaal, who has brought all these amazing artists together to produce the ‘Zayn Adams Tribute’.” Abrahams’ manager Fahmi Jacobs said they are pleased to be part of a meaningful initiative that aims to make difference in the lives of the voiceless by creating autism awareness.  “Being an artist isn’t just about talent, but the impact you make through your production,” Jacobs said. Zayn Adams was 67 when he died after a short illness in 2015. Today’s show starts at 8pm. Tickets cost R250 at Computicket and R350 for the golden circle.