Cape Town - Nine-year-old Tamika Van As is ready to represent South Africa and her community at an international ice-skating event later this year.  This figure skater from Bonteheuwel has been selected to represent South Africa at Skate Celje in Slovenia. She was only 5 when she first visited the ice rink at GrandWest in Goodwood. Little did she know it would open big doors for her. Last month she learnt about her big break when she was selected to compete. “I was super excited when my mom told me I was selected to represent the country. I’m trying my best to work hard so that I can be proud when I skate in Slovenia. I think to be a great skater you need to be dedicated and committed. I do my sport early morning before and after school," said Tamika. As little as she is, Tamika carries different strides from different sport codes. She competed in the 2019 chicks U8 in the Western Province Championships, followed by coming fourth in juvenile in the Provincials in 2020, and then third in the Cape Interprovincials. She made it to the nationals in 2021 and this year she was placed fourth in the nationals high performance. She’s also expected to represent Western Province in October in Durban for table tennis U11. “In my community sport keeps you away from the bad things. I would like to come back from Slovenia and my mom must take me to schools in my area so I can tell other children about my experience and how important sport is. “If there is anybody that would help me reach my dream of skating overseas I would really appreciate it,” said the Grade 4 pupil. Her proud mom, Tarren Van As, said: “I would appeal to people to help get Tamika to reach her dream to skate overseas so she can come back and inspire our young kids. It is such a special moment for us that she has come this far.” Coach Vage Evetts said: “Being selected to compete overseas is a huge achievement. Through this she will gain great experience of how the skaters overseas train and perform. “We are currently working on a new routine which should be ready to showcase at our interprovincial in Cape Town in October. We are also working on new elements within the routine. This is in order for Tamika to increase her score,” said Evetts. The family has launched a Backabuddy page to raise the needed R90 000 travel cost. Visit  https://www.backabuddy.co.za/tamika-van-as for more information.