Cape Town - Passers-by walking along a notorious stretch of Mnandi beach on Saturday morning stumbled upon the bodies of a man and woman who were shot and killed. The unidentified duo were found tied up and close to what is known as the “S-bend” at the beach near Mitchells Plain. Police were called to the scene where the bodies were discovered and found their hands and feet tied with masking tape. The deceased were clothed, with the woman wearing a grey shirt and skirt and the man, a blue tracksuit pants and no top.  Police found four bullet casings in the bloody sand, after digging underneath the bodies. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. SAPS spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said police arrived at the scene shortly after 7am and found both victims lying in the sand, covered with a sheet.  “Both victims sustained gunshot wounds to their bodies. The victims were declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. “Mitchells Plain police are investigating two counts of murder,” he said. Swartbooi said unknown suspect/s who fled the scene were yet to be arrested and that the motive behind the killings was yet to be determined. Crime activists in the area said while it was too early to speculate on the motive for the murders, special attention should be placed on raising safety awareness. Strandfontein Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson, Sandy Schuter, said the stretch of beaches along Baden Powell Drive were known as a coastal killing field. In October, the body of a 15-year-old girl was discovered in Lukannon Drive, Strandfontein, with a laceration on her throat, just metres away from the S-bend. In March 2020, officers from Law Enforcement Marine Unit arrested four men after they were found carrying the bodies of two men towards the beach in the same area. Schuter said the area had become a hotspot for opportunistic crimes and murder because of a lack of property lighting or CCTV cameras. “This place is not safe and we cannot stress it enough. We always tell people to not go to these beaches alone, especially at night. Yes there are patrols but if a van or team drives past and they see nothing happening they focus on the next hotspot,” she said. Schuter said the spot where the two bodies were found on Saturday is known for attracting couples who park there. “They choose the deepest and darkest spots to get some privacy but the privacy could cost them their lives.  “We have caught many young couples coming to have sex on the beach, I cannot emphasise it enough that it is not safe. “You get criminals who know this and they wait for the opportunity to strike. And then you also get criminals who use this as a dumping site for bodies,” she said. Schuter said they have tried countless times to get lights and cameras installed along the road, to no avail. Earlier this month, Weekend Argus reported that The City’s Safety and Security Directorate allocated R5 million of its R50 m CCTV expansion budget for cameras to be installed along Baden Powell Drive. According to the City, a large proportion of the funding has been allocated for the infrastructure and the erection of seven cameras. Schuter said she heard this two years ago as well. “Every year its like the City just renews their promises to have lights and cameras put up. “Until then this stretch isn’t safe, it was never safe,” she said. Mitchells Plain CPF chairperson Norman Jantjies also said he was not shocked to hear that more bodies were found along the beach. “This is just another of many such incidents, where people are found murdered. “We’re talking about (countless) bodies over the past few years, a lot of it is gang related and others related to crimes like robberies. “This is why as a CPF we are urging people to not be there alone, rather be in a group, it is a notorious spot and its not safe,” he said. Jantjies also called on the City to fulfil their plan to install the lights and cameras. “We are also asking that these cameras have a number plate recognition, because we know bodies are brought there with cars, so that will help,” he said. Anyone with information regarding the double murder has been requested to contact police on Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Weekend Argus