As the president promised to take “every available means and remove every regulatory obstacle to bring extra electricity on to the grid as soon as possible”, the embattled power utility Eskom promised that the crippling power cuts would come to an end this week. Yesterday, Eskom chief executive Andre de Ruyter said more power generation units were expected to come online. Eskom started implementing stage 6 load shedding for only the second time in its history since last month, meaning most South Africans were without power for at least six hours a day. The level of the outages has since been lowered, with Stage 2, 3 and 4 power cuts at different times this week. Eskom has blamed the outages on striking workers hampering efforts to bring faulty generation units back online. “Towards the end of the coming week, we should emerge from load shedding. We've already lifted our indication for load shedding going forward. We've got a couple of big units returning, so that's positive news,” De Ruyter told journalists. He added that towards the end of the month the risk would be significantly diminished once unit 2 of the Koeberg Nuclear Power Station comes back on to the grid, which “is about 920 MW so that will bring a large measure of relief”. “But ultimately to put load shedding to bed, what we need is the additional capacity because the system as it is at the moment is still unreliable and unpredictable,” De Ruyter said. He was speaking at a brief news conference at Tutuka Power Station in Mpumalanga after a site visit and meeting with President Cyril Ramaphosa, some ministers and managers of the plant for a progress report. Ramaphosa said he would meet other managers at another power station yesterday to get closer insight into some of the problems and challenges they were facing. “Having done so, we'll be able to come up with a number of proposals that can effectively deal with the challenges that the country faces when it comes to load shedding,” he said. The government also planned to unveil new solutions to address the country's worst power crisis yet, Ramaphosa said on Friday when addressing an SACP conference. Ramaphosa said the government needed to “every available means and remove every regulatory obstacle to bring extra electricity on to the grid as soon as possible”. “In the coming days, we will be announcing additional measures that we need to take to address the current electricity crisis.” The state utility has for more than a decade struggled with intermittent power supply, but this year the outages are expected to reach a record level. Late last, month Eskom blamed a strike over pay for hampering efforts to bring malfunctioning power units back online. Eskom has since agreed on a salary deal with workers, and the level of power cuts has been lowered, but opposition parties and a business lobby groups have called for urgent intervention. The power cuts have piled pressure on small businesses and households recovering from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and grappling with inflation at a five-year high. Explaining why the country needed to move further away from a monopoly model of electricity supply, he said: “When Eskom fails, the country is thrown into darkness, as we are now.” This week’s draft rules were released for public comment for onshore shale gas exploration, four years after the Supreme Court of Appeal set aside regulations governing hydraulic fracturing in the ecologically sensitive Karoo region. The proposed regulations and minimum requirements apply to the exploration and production of onshore oil and gas that requires hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, a process of extracting natural gas from shale rock layers by creating cracks to allow the gas to escape. A decade ago, the Karoo sparked intense interest from companies including Shell, Sasol and Falcon Oil & Gas, but farmers and environmentalists went to court to challenge any drilling in the vast semi-arid region, which saw enthusiasm wane amid regulatory uncertainty. Last year, Minister of Energy Gwede Mantashe told lawmakers that the country’s Council for Geosciences had hit pockets of shale gas as part of ongoing tests in the region. “The regulations identify prohibited activities and prohibited geographic areas for the use of hydraulic fracturing technology, which includes the use of potable water for hydraulic fracturing activities and the use of municipal water treatment facilities for the disposal of wastes from hydraulic fracturing operations,” said the Department of Fisheries, Forestry and Environment. In a statement released on Wednesday, the department said an environmental authorisation was required for each phase of the process, including seismic surveys without fracking and the production phase. The government wants to diversify its energy mix away from ageing coal-fired power plants prone to breakdowns, and help reduce harmful emissions from the continent's top polluter. In 2017, geologists at the University of Johannesburg and three other institutions estimated the gas resource in the Karoo was probably 13 trillion cubic feet (tcf), the bottom of a range of estimates that had put deposits between 13tcf to 390tcf.