THE first born of deceased top cop Lieutenant-Colonel Charl Kinnear doesn’t believe there’s much to celebrate this coming Youth Month. Crime didn’t just rob Carlisle Kinnear, 26, of a father it has taken his privacy too. He and his family have a security detail as they live in fear, and he has little job prospects. Kinnear’s father was a top detective with the Anti-Gang Unit who was investigating the underworld and crooked police involvement in “the guns for gangs“ scandal. His assassination made headlines when he was killed outside his home in Bishop Lavis in September 2020 after his protection services were removed. “Many problems have been lingering in the system for a long time and nobody has the testicles big enough to take it on,” said Kinnear. Kinnear, who still lives with his mother Nicolette, said the family still looked over their shoulders when walking the streets. “Since my father died, everything has changed,” he told Weekend Argus on Friday. The family has a police detail. “From having to look over the shoulder when you walk and there is no privacy. You cannot just get into the car and go drive. “I think the hardest thing is not having privacy – people do not realise how frustrating it is that even when you go to the shop the police are around you. “People need to stay safe out there in times of high crime in the Cape Flats. They must  be vigilant,” he said. Kinnear is a soccer coach and has a post-grad in injury rehabilitation, but was still looking for a job. He encouraged young people to find a hobby, “something they enjoy doing. Something positive to use your energy on,” he concluded. His mother Nicolette Kinnear said the SAPS had let their family down. She said after a risk assessment, they received a letter last week to say the family’s security detail would be removed. However, after discussions with her lawyers, they had been informed that police protection would continue until further notice. “This is not just about us, but the detectives who are investigating the sensitive case. We want all the investigators and detectives to be protected because they are brave people. They are fighting a dangerous battle and that is why we found ourselves in this situation,” she said.