AS THE demand for the minibus taxi service grows, associations have submitted applications for 533 new routes to allow them to expand or augment their operations. The City said it received some objections to the proposed taxi routes across the metropole as the taxi regulator, the Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE), was in the process of conducting hearings. The process comes amid concerns by the regulators that more than 70% of the current routes were overtraded in respect of legal operating licences. Spokesperson for Transport MEC, Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, said overtrading had been identified as one of the main reasons for the conflict in the taxi industry. It involved, among other issues, aggressive solicitation of passengers, a reduction in revenue and route invasions. "The situation is exacerbated by recruitment drives and a concomitant proliferation in illegal operations," she said. New taxi association members were prepared to fork out up to R100 000, depending on how  lucrative the route was, said an industry player. However, the South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO) in the province believed that there was a need for new taxi routes in the metro. Provincial chairperson Mandla Hermanus said: "Taxis cannot open a route where there is no demand." He said the need for new routes arose, because of the decline in the Metrorail passenger service, the sprouting of new informal settlements and the movement of business premises by some companies. "One of the proposed key routes is Brackengate after several businesses, which employ a large number of people have moved there. This will therefore result in a change in the operating licences for some of the taxi associations. "The other reason is that some also require permission to be allowed to use alternative roads on the routes already granted to make their operations smoother," said Hermanus. Makoba-Somdaka agreed that there have been several new residential and commercial developments that had increased the need for public transport services. A case in point is the Brackengate development. "We have a responsibility as government to balance supply and demand and to provide services to communities in a sustainable manner," she said. Hermanus rejected the provincial department's statement that some of the routes were overtraded. "We don't understand what methodology is being used to declare the routes overtraded. If, for example, only 200 operating licences were issued on a route from Nyanga to Bellville, but due to a growing demand there are now 400 taxis operating there, we regard that as a response to a need by commuters. "Our priority is to get people to work as quickly as possible,"  Hermanus said. He also called on the authorities to issue licences more frequently than was currently the case. "The industry cannot wait for close to 10 years for new operating licences to be issued. This practice also leads to illegal taxi operations," added Hermanus. According to Hermanus, the illegal operations, particularly in the Dunoon area, were due to operating licences of some operators when the MyCiTi bus service was introduced. "The MyCiTi bus service does not operate in certain areas where there's a demand for public transport services," he said. SANTACO was looking into creating a database of all taxi industry members to verify numbers as this would also help with issuing of new operating licences. "It's not going to be an easy process but we must do it. It will also help with ending the practice of people purchasing vehicles before even joining an association and other risks to the industry," he said. Mayco member for Urban Mobility, Rob Quintas, said while the exact number of illegal taxi routes was not known, it could be assumed that the 533 proposed new routes equalled the number of illegal routes in the City. He said the City supported 1 431 new operating licences  at the beginning of 2022. Quintas said more new operating licences were anticipated to be supported during the last quarter.