Cape Town - The Anti-Gang Unit, together with the police Crime Prevention Unit, say they are stopping at nothing to bring calm to the streets of Hanover Park. They have made several arrests, including that of a minor linked to alleged drug trade. On Tuesday police identified a hot spot in Hanover Park after receiving a tip-off from the community. Police made six arrests, one of which was a 16-year-old boy allegedly found with a stash of heroin and mandrax. Two 9mm firearms were also confiscated during the arrests. Philippi police spokesperson, Captain Lance Goliath, said they managed to make the arrest thanks to vigilant community members. “Following more reports of sporadic shootings, Philippi police subsequently increased visibility and putting pressure on criminals to seize illegal objects and substances, as as well as bringing such criminals to book. “On Tuesday, members of Philippi Crime Prevention Unit, Anti-Gang Unit and provincial team of Operation Restore,  flooded the identified hot spot areas to restore safety . “The local community is also on board by supplying information to members of SAPS on such criminals and their criminal activities.” At the first house in Lansport Road, police found the minor together with an adult man. “At about 12.45pm, two houses at Lansport Road, Hanover, were searched. One male suspect aged 39 and a minor male 16 years of age were arrested when a small quantity of heroin and mandrax were seized.” Goliath said the team then struck gold when they arrested two suspects with 9mm firearms and ammunition within an hour. “Round about the same time, members of the Anti-Gang Unit swiftly followed up on information,” he said. “At a house at Lynstone Road, Hanover Park, a 32 year male was arrested for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. A 9mm Astra pistol, one magazine and 15 x 9mm live ammunition was seized. The serial number of the pistol was filed off. “At 1.30pm, two more male suspects, aged 37 and 56, were arrested by members of the Crime Prevention Unit at Silica Walk, Hanover Park, after they were found to be in possession of a small quantity of crystal meth and mandrax. “At 2.25pm, Anti-Gang Unit members proceeded to a house at Surdown Walk, Hanover Park, where they seized 9 x 9mm live ammunition. A 26-year-old male suspect was arrested for the illegal possession of ammunition. “Once charged, the suspects will make their court appearances in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court on charges relating to the firearms and ammunition act as well as drug-related charges. The police investigation continues.” Goliath added that the team did not stop there and took in several suspects for questioning, who may be linked to other crimes. “As part of police investigation of serious crimes, several other males from the identified crime hot spot areas were also brought in for questioning throughout the day so as to determine any involvement in criminal activities,” he said. Philippi station commander Colonel Adriaan Saulse commended the public and the members involved in the arrests and seizures. “Every firearm and ammunition and perpetrator of crime off the streets results in a safer environment for everyone,” he said. “Information on crime can be given to the local police at 021 690 1504 or at Crime Stop at 08600 10111.” With the recent spate of shootings, Western Cape Minister of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Reagen Allen, has been carrying out patrols with neighbourhood watch teams. These areas include Somerset West, Eerste River, Woodstock and Tafelsig. Marcellino Martin, spokesperson for Minister Allen, said the MEC was determined to create trust and a working relationship with residents and neighbourhood watch members in communities where shootings were rampant. ”To date, Allen has already patrolled in Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain, Woodstock, Greater Elsies River and Somerset West. In total, 17 NHWs (neighbourhood watches) have been part of these patrols. “In all patrols, the SAPS and City of Cape Town metro police were also present, while in some instances, such as in Woodstock and Somerset West, private security firms also joined the patrols. More than 430 brave men and women who are mostly volunteers have been on these safety walks.” Allen said: “I cannot thank our volunteers from the various community structures enough for their commitment. These men and women are the true heroes of their communities and I applaud them for going the extra mile for and in their communities.  “It’s pleasing to note how SAPS and other law enforcement agencies are supporting and assisting our volunteers, and how in certain instances the private security sector is also contributing to the fight against crime in this context. “There is a definite opportunity to get a lot more participation from the broader private sector, as this talks to how we all, both public and private, can play a bigger role in combating crime. “As I’ve committed to at least 30 neighbourhood watches within my first 100 days, I’m looking forward to patrolling with others across the Western Cape. Thank you to those who have thus far extended invitations to patrol with them. The more we work together, the greater the chance of us removing crime from our areas.” Weekend Argus