Cape Town - Twelve people have been shot in four separate shootings in Cape Town over the past 24 hours. Five of them died. The first shooting happened in Ekuphumleni, Khayelitsha, where three family members were ambushed by two armed men at their home in Lindelwa Street just after 8pm. “Lingelethu police were called out to Lindelwa Street where they found the bodies of two men and a woman with gunshot wounds,” said police spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa. “It is alleged that two armed men in dark clothes stormed the home at 8.10pm and fired several shots. The ages of the deceased persons are 51, 53 and 57. Information gathered from the scene indicates all three victims were siblings,” she added. The motive of the shooting is unknown. According to the Khayelitsha Development Forum, the shooting takes the number of people killed in mass shootings in the area to 60 from May last year to date Just two minutes after the Khayelitsha shooting, police were called to Manenberg which has been a battleground for gangs in the past few weeks. A 41-year-old was killed in Hilda Court. The man died wrapped in a blanket before help could arrive. Police spokesperson Captain Frederick Van Wyk said: “The 41-year-old sustained a bullet wound to his upper body and succumbed to his injuries on the scene.” There was another shooting in Manenberg this morning when a gunman opened fire in Duinefontein Road opposite Nyanga Junction, injuring six people, before running away. “Two females aged 50 and 52 and four males aged between 35, 58 and 41 were shot and injured,” said Van Wyk. The Weekend Argus was contacted by fearful residents who said they were held captive inside their homes and that schoolchildren were also becoming targets of robberies in Hanover Park. “There is no police visibility, only when the shootings happen,” said one mother. “The problem we also have is the fact that there is load shedding in our area which is seen as a red zone, the gangsters wait for these times to shoot. “This morning, I cannot even leave for work. “The schoolchildren are being robbed of their cellphones early in the morning and this is very traumatising for us. “They are going out for an education and they are being exposed to shootings and robberies.” Philippi police spokesperson Captain Lance Goliath said: “This morning, Monday at 7.20, a 30-year-old male was fatally shot at Lynstone Road Hanover Park. “The deceased sustained several gunshot wounds to his body and medical personnel declared him dead at the crime scene. “Seven spent cartridges were found at the crime scene. “The motive behind the killing is yet to be determined and it is yet to be determined if the incident was gang-related.” The last shooting was in Delft where a minibus taxi driver was shot while leaving his house. Police spokesperson Sergeant Wesley Twigg said the 46-year-old man was shot and wounded at a shack on the corner of Mango and Mozart streets. “The suspect/s fled the scene and are yet to be arrested.” Anyone with any information about the shooting incidents is urged to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.