The Department of Land Reform says a total of 86 District Six  land claimants have already received keys to their new homes. As many as 102 claimants were to be moved back to District Six by Wednesday,  as part of Phase 3 of the restitution process. Spokesperson for the Minister of Land Reform Reggie Ngcobo said the department was still handling issues related to family disputes with regards to the rest of the claimants. "The disputes relate mainly to deceased estates. Once these have been resolved, the families will be able to move into their homes," said Ngcobo. He could  indicate when the process would be finalised. The first group of 20 claimants received keys to their new homes on May 5. The claimants had been gradually moving back to District Six. Chairperson of the District Six Working Committee Zahrah Nordien said the process  had gone well, finally. The claimants lodged their claims between 1995 and 1998 in line with the restitution process. The District Six Working Committee, which championed the cause for restitution on behalf of the claimants, took the Department of Land Reform to the Land Claims Court in 2019 after the restitution  process was marked with several delays. The court ruled in their favour and ordered the government to speed up the process and provide quarterly progress reports. The more than 25 year-long wait was also marked by the death of several claimants, including the oldest claimant, 100-year-old Shariefa Khan  and the leader of the District Six Working Committee , Shaheed Ajam. However, according to Nordien, the claims of another 3000 claimants would still need to be attended, as yet there was no indication of the conclusion date. "These are related to claims that were lodged in 2000 but their papers got lost in the department and they had to re-apply," she said. Meanwhile, the City recently concluded the last co-design workshop on the streets and public spaces of District Six. Over the past year the City, in collaboration with nominated representatives from District Six, worked on a list of public spaces and streets to be prioritised for redevelopment in future. The workshops also focused on the guidelines for the look and feel of the public spaces and streets in District Six. The City said the purpose of the spatial efforts was to re-establish the  once vibrant neighbourhood and to create a sense of belonging. "The work done by the City and the caretakers will be exhibited to the public sometime in June, " according to Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Eddie Andrews.