Cape Town - Six years after hijackers murdered education administrator Eleanor Wyngaard in her driveway, the killers remain at large and her family in the dark, having last heard from police four years ago. The promise that fingerprints found inside her 2014 Toyota Etios, which was abandoned in Nyanga a day after the murder, could potentially be a lead, amounted to nothing. Cellphone records were also investigated but the family say they have not be informed about the outcome. Wyngaard’s murder had sent shock waves through the streets of Westridge. She had worked as an administrator at the Metro East Education Department and had been returning from her boyfriend’s home when she was attacked. The gunmen had shot Wyngaard close to her heart and leg. Her elderly father, Christian Wyngaard, had heard the gunshots while sitting inside the lounge. He had seen two unknown men fleeing the scene. Christian had called out to his wife and they had alerted their son, Edgar, who had been in the house. Edgar had hurried outside where he had found Wyngaard lying in a pool of blood. She died at the scene. Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said no arrests had been made in the case. “The circumstances surrounding a murder registered in Mitchells Plain, on July 20 2016, are still under investigation. The investigating officer in the matter is pursuing all available leads to ensure a major breakthrough.” Wyngaard was described as a jovial person who was full of life. Edgar said communication with police had been very poor in the past four years and that they had last heard from detectives in 2018. “In July, it will be six years and the last time we heard from the police was in 2018 when they said they had a lead. “They had found fingerprints in her car which had been abandoned in Nyanga. They said they had traced her cellphone to a township but we never heard of that again. We know that police are understaffed and that they have many cases.” Edgar said the loss of their loved one had impacted them immensely. “My mother has left her bedroom untouched,” he said. “My parents have made peace with everything, that they will leave it in God’s hands.” A police source close to the investigation appealed for the case to be shared publicly in the hope that a witness might come forward.  “There was a lack of witnesses in this case and it would be good if this is shared in the media for there to be a potential lead, perhaps someone saw something or remembered something, and for them to come forward now.” Anyone with information that can assist with the investigation is urged to call Crime Stop at 08600 10111. Weekend Argus