Cape Town  - Environmentalist Misha Teasdale is a big fan of getting his hands dirty, and he is on a mission to improve the quality of our world. Teasdale will be one of the speakers at the Plant Power Show at the Cape International Convention Centre this weekend. The three-day event will also feature professional chefs, celebrity cooks, rising stars, and health and wellness experts. Teasdale said we live in exciting times, where the way people eat is changing dramatically. “With hosting events such as the Plant Powered Show, we can really give the South African community a fresh look at how to approach diets and the many cool brands that are out there, providing alternative types of protein when made available. “We are (quickly) moving away from what was seemingly a conventional diet of a portion of meat and size of vegetables. We eat pizza or we eat burgers, and as the world becomes a smaller place, our diets are becoming more dynamic and distinct. “My belief is that everyone is on a food journey, and the more you wear your heart on your sleeve with regards to your values and your ethics, the more you will be tuned into what your dietary choices are. What I would like to bring to the show is by no means the science or nutrition, but really the curiosity side of one’s food journey and how that interplays with the work I do,” he said. Teasdale said he started his food journey as an environmentalist, and planted trees and restored eco systems.  He said by operating in this space we need to analyse how we approach our diet because we vote with our wallet when we buy food.  “It is one thing sitting behind the phone or behind the desk, but it is a whole other thing (when) getting my hands dirty, (which gives me a sense of purpose),” he said. CEO of Live Events (the driving force behind The Plant Powered Show) Heidi Warricker said: “Plant-based foods are gaining in popularity, and the market is developing fast. This trend is based on several factors, such as changes in lifestyle, interest in alternative diets, and the increasing awareness of the sustainable production of foods. “We are delighted to finally be able to launch The Plant Powered Show as a live in-person event, a first for the African continent. We are also pleased that it will retain the online component, which was how the show was launched last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The hospitality, food and events trade was hard hit by the pandemic. We are open for business again and look forward to the support.” For more information about the event, visit: https://plantpoweredshow.com. Weekend Argus