Cape Town - The DA has denied applying double standards on the matter facing their senior member and current provincial legislature speaker Masizole Mnqasela.  The party has asked Mnqasela to provide reasons why he should not be suspended from party activities after he was reported by the DA to the Hawks after a whistle-blower approached the party leadership with information that Mnqasela might have been involved in corrupt activities. This relates to travel and entertainment allowance claims linked to the DA senior member. Deputy speaker Beverley Schäfer was hauled before the legislature’s conduct committee to probe complaints that she refused to downgrade her luxury state-funded BMW after a six-month stint as MEC ended. She is likely to be found guilty of this as she has not denied failing to downgrade the car. The DA has not taken any action against her. The issue of DA councillor Nora Grose, who is currently out on R10 000 bail, has been brought up and the party is accused of being lenient with her. “Grose was suspended from party activities,” said DA spokesperson Richard Newton. “This is a step that the party takes. People need to understand that the intention to suspend anyone is from party activities. If the party suspends him, it does not impact his position as speaker.” Asked whether they are not worried that this will create division in the party, Newton said they pride themselves on being an anti-corruption party.  “We pride ourselves on being transparent and open. If we find corruption or fraud and we expose it and take action, that may cause some kind of friction, but it is what we have to do. I think the media would be harsher on us if we are hiding it under the carpet because we don’t want any objections.” The Hawks confirmed that they are investigating a fraud case. Mnqasela declined to comment. He only promised to defend himself through the courts if he feels his rights are being violated.  “I’ll challenge any matter that prejudices against my civil liberties and freedom.” The ANC and the EFF ripped into the DA during Thursday’s sitting. Mnqasela was present but did not chair much of the sitting. The DA’s Andricus van der Westhuizen had to chair almost the entire sitting. The EFF’s Nosipho Mbotya accused the DA of racism.  “The DA finds it unacceptable for an African man to refer a white woman to the conduct committee for possible sanction. It is now public knowledge that Debbie Schäfer abused state resources by using a state vehicle that she was not supposed to use following the end of her term as an MEC for Economic Opportunities back in May 2019. Her referral to the conduct committee for such misconduct has irked the white bosses within the DA upper echelons who came to her aid and are now in the process of suspending the speaker. “It has never been a secret that the DA is a racist party that will use black people to get votes from black communities and then cast them away into the ditch later.” ANC deputy chief whip Khalid Sayed said they were not surprised that the speaker was requested to step down.  “The DA will do well to educate its premier on the democratic rule of law and the separation of powers. This attitude of dismissal of this House and its constitutional duties, by the premier, permeates throughout his cabinet. We call on the Leader of Government Business Honourable Dr Ivan Meyer to provide leadership because clearly the premier – as leader of the DA caucus in this House – cannot do so.” Local Government MEC Anton Bredell has described the ANC’s comments during the sitting as nonsensical. “For the record, I can state there are no divisions in the DA and they must stop focusing on us and rather try to see what can be done to save their sinking ship that is pulling the entire county under water,” Bredell said. “The premier has acted within his powers, the rule of law and within what anyone can expect from a premier. It is never easy to act against your own colleagues. I am proud to be part of this team because as the DA we promised to the people we will discipline our members where necessary and be strict,” he said. Weekend Argus