Cape Town - Aimed at those looking to live and enjoy a healthier, more conscious and sustainable lifestyle, The Plant Powered Show will take place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) this weekend. A first of its kind on the continent, the three-day event will feature professional chefs, celebrity cooks and rising stars, who will host live cooking demonstrations and master classes.  Health and wellness experts will also host compelling talks, and there will be hundreds of vegan and plant-based food, drink and lifestyle brands and products to test, sample and buy. The show will incorporate a virtual component, allowing visitors from the rest of the country, the continent, and around the globe to join the event from the comfort of their own homes via the HOPIN online venue. They can watch a livestream of the Checkers Plant Kitchen chef demonstrations live from the CTICC, meet with exhibitors in the virtual expo area and network with other online attendees in the speed networking area. Chief executive of Live Events (the driving force behind The Plant Powered Show), Heidi Warricker, said: “We are so excited to finally be able to launch The Plant Powered Show as a live in-person event in Cape Town, but also pleased that it will have an online component. “Consumers across the globe want to live more consciously and be more mindful of the animals with whom we share the planet, and chefs and foodies want to be inspired to create delicious meals with exciting new ingredients. This show will bring them all that and more.” Warricker added: “This is a show that everyone will enjoy, young and old alike. I cannot stress enough that it is not an event only for vegans and vegetarians.  “It has been carefully and considerately curated to appeal to flexitarians, reducetarians, sports enthusiasts, individuals who have compromised their health and those looking for healthier, more ethical lifestyle choices for themselves and their family. “We look forward to seeing as many Capetonians there as possible, but space is limited due to Covid protocols, so we would implore those wanting to attend to book in advance.” Tickets for The Plant Powered Show are available from Quicket or at the door and cost R250pp for adults, R200pp for students and seniors over 60+ (valid ID required on entry). Tickets for the master class cost R145, there are 18 to choose from, and you can select as many as you like (valid with a general admission ticket on the day)  and online tickets are R120. For the Checkers Plant Kitchen programme, go to: https://bit.ly/3sQiYNH. For the Masterclass programme, go to: https://bit.ly/39GxDEq. To buy tickets, go to: https://bit.ly/3vnWYds. For more info, visit the Plant Powered website: https://plantpoweredshow.com. EMAIL WAEXPO and your name and cell phone number to competitions@inl.co.za to win a Plant Power hamper. The competition closes Thursday at 9am. Terms and conditions apply. Weekend Argus