Cape Town - Disgruntled Golden Arrow bus passengers, particularly on the Kenridge route, are speaking out against the bus company’s announcement to discontinue the Kenridge route bus service as of May 30. Customers of the only bus that runs between Kenridge and Monte Vista on the Town-bound route started a petition against the company, stating that the cancellation of the service would significantly impact them as there is no other reliable, economical transport available in the area. Petitioner Sasha de Freitas mentioned that with sky-rocketing petrol prices, as well as the MyCiTi Service never being routed in the North, reliable and economical transport is now, more than ever, scarce and under-publicised. “This has been devastating news for the bus-takers, their workplaces and families and multiple Kenridge bus takers during this dire time for transportation. “Speaking from personal experience, it was by chance one morning as I was passing over Monte Vista Boulevard that I saw the sign on a Golden Arrow bus reading City. I had previously called the GABS hotline multiple times and been informed by multiple agents that there was no bus from Monte Vista to town. After conversations with multiple Northern Suburbs bus-takers I learned that this experience is common for bus-takers across the board. There is a lack of publicity and knowledge about this,” said De Freitas. Tess Ackermann, who claimed to have been taking the bus for more than ten years, mentioned that without having taxis in the area, community members would be affected financially, as a lot of travellers rent rooms in people’s backyards, and the bus is their only hope to get to work. “For the past ten years, I have been using the Golden Arrow bus from Loevenstein NG Church to Town. We are not just a normal group of people.  We are family. Our regular drivers get gifts from us for Christmas, keep the change, and then a drink at least twice a week when we forget to load our cards. “This bus is the only means of transport for us living in Loevenstein/Panorama. We do not have taxis, and most certainly cannot afford to drive in every day with the current petrol hikes, 90% of us use the bus every day, Morning and evening. “I know I am speaking on behalf of a lot of people when I say us staying in these areas does not necessarily mean we can afford petrol. There are a lot of travellers renting rooms in people’s backyards, and the bus is their only hope. They will have to move to different areas so that they can afford other means of transport, or some might not have other means to get to a different bus route, which will then result in more expenditure for us. “Losing this bus will affect people’s income, the way of living, and them being on time for work. Currently, the bus comes when it wants in the morning, and results in individuals coming late for work. We would like to still be respected for the time remaining.  I feel Golden Arrow has not done enough to try and help us create awareness for the route, and giving us a few weeks’ notice to just end the route is not fair,” said Ackermann. Golden Arrow area manager, Rafiek Lakay, mentioned that Golden Arrow has unfortunately weighed all the options and has decided to cancel this service because it is not viable for the company to operate the service due to poor patronage. Golden Arrow Bus Services public relations manager, Bronwen Dyke-Beyer, stated that the cancellation was necessary as part of Golden Arrow’s attempts to minimise the impact of cost increases on the passengers. “Golden Arrow has undertaken a comprehensive audit of its services in order to identify any offerings which are not being well utilised. This was not an easy decision, and we sincerely empathise with all affected passengers, but the cancellation was necessary as part of Golden Arrow’s attempts to minimise the impact of cost increases on our passengers. “The audit was used to identify services which do not have sustainable ridership figures, and these will, unfortunately, be removed from our service offering going forward,” said Dyke-Beyer. Weekend Argus