Cape Town - An elderly couple, one who is partially blind, and their children and grandchildren have been left homeless after a devastating fire and need help to rebuild their lives. Tony van Schalkwyk, 69, and his wife, Elizabeth, 63, woke to flames inside their home on May 22 just after load shedding in Dahlia Street, Lentegeur, Mitchells Plain. The retired couple are now sleeping on the lounge floor at their neighbour’s. Community activists are rallying to help the family, three of whom are attending school but have been unable to do so as their books and uniforms perished in the fire. The youngest grandchild is 6 months old. Activist Faheema Joshua is calling for building material and clothing for the family. Joshua said the family had been fast asleep when neighbours alerted them to the blaze. Van Schalkwyk was left with burns to his face and was rescued by his 26-year-old son. Joshua spoke on behalf of the family. “It was load shedding and the family were asleep when they heard the neighbours screaming,” she said. “The son, Matthew, managed to get his father out of the house. “The father is semi-blind and had burns to his face and is recovering well now. “The family are now sleeping on the floor of a lounge at a neighbour’s and they lost everything in the fire. “The children are unable to attend school as their books and uniforms are burnt. “We are appealing for bricks or blocks or assistance with the roof, paint or any building material,” she said. “Even with the assistance of a building contractor.” Jermaine Carelse, spokesperson for City Fire & Rescue Service, said eight people had been left homeless in the fire and that the cause was unknown. “Crews from Mitchells Plain and Lansdowne Road were on scene with two fire engines, two water tankers and a rescue vehicle. The first arriving officer found the building well alight and crews managed to contain and extinguish the fire at 2.08am. The building was severely affected by the fire and an adjacent property was smoke logged. “Eight persons were displaced and one adult male, 69 years of age, sustained second-degree burns to the side of the head and left hand. He was treated on scene. “The cause of the fire is unknown at this stage.” * Faheema can be contacted on 061 206 9749. Weekend Argus