Cape Town - An alleged gunman who was desperate to hide his firearm from police attempted concealing it underneath the sand in Hanover Park. Philippi police had identified Fountain Place in Hanover Park as a hotspot for shootings. The team carried out patrols in the area and noticed a suspicious looking man standing in front of his yard. Once police attempted to search him, the man gave chase and hid something underneath the sand. The latest murder in the area saw a 30-year-old man shot and killed in Lynstone Road in Hanover Park. During a search of the sand, police found a black 7.65 pistol with six live ammunition. A 44-year-old man was arrested on the scene three weeks ago and is expected back in court this month for charges of the illegal possession of a firearm. Philippi Police spokesperson Captain Lance Goliath said the confiscation formed part of eradicating the illegal trade of firearms and the gunfire in the area. “Strengthening community relations and restoring trust between the South African Police Service in Philippi and the community is high on the priority list in the fight to eradicate crime,” said Goliath. Philippi Police has subsequently increased visibility in identified hotspot areas following a spade of shooting incidents in the precinct. “Members attached to Philippi Police Station were busy with patrols and crime prevention duties in identified crime hotspot areas. “As the members were entering Fountain Place, Hanover Park, they spotted a male person who, in turn, when he spotted them, ran into the front yard of a home now known as his place of residence. The members immediately gave chase and found the male, where he was busy concealing a firearm under the sand. “Police confiscated the firearm, a black pistol 7.65 with six live ammunition and arrested a 44-year-old male as he couldn’t produce any form of documentation or a licence to be in possession of it. “Police investigation around the pistol is continuing as the serial number of the pistol has been tampered with.” Station Commander Colonel Adriaan Saulse commended the police officers for a job well done: “Often, their lives are put at risk when firearms end up in the hands of ruthless criminals.” Last week, Western Cape Minister of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Reagen Allen, said they would be reintroducing the reward system for people to report illegal firearms. “It is important to state that we will continue our efforts to combat crime with all stakeholders wherever it might occur. Criminals must know that they will not be able to rest. “To further combat the shootings that are occurring in various communities, we will be reintroducing our rewards system for the anonymous reporting of where illegal firearms can be found. “Further details about the system and how to report the whereabouts of an illegal firearm will be communicated over the coming days.” Gun Free South Africa’s Claire Taylor also revealed previously to the Weekend Argus  that 23 people were shot and killed every day in South Africa. “23 people are shot and killed every day in South Africa, with Cape Flats’ communities at particular risk,” she said. “The majority of guns used are illegal, but almost all were once legal before being lost or stolen.” Allen also told the newspaper last week that there were 442 mass shootings registered by police between June 20129 and December 2021, with 563 killed and 1000 wounded. Weekend Argus