Cape Town - It’s been close to nine months since Achmat “Sharkboy” Hassiem has been in a coma but he reacts with his eyes and facial expression to show he is in pain or watching people. His coma resulted in him being diagnosed with cerebral hypoxia, which occurs when the brain doesn't get enough oxygen. Achmat went in for a routine operation on his upper back in September last year. However, the following day, his neck was swollen due to the operation which made it difficult for him to breathe.  His breathing got worse as the day progressed and they rushed him to the operating room. On the operating table he sustained a cardiac arrest which has caused all the complications he is currently dealing with. His mother, Thoraiya, said he is unresponsive but does react to movement, touch and pain. “We don’t know if he will come out of a coma, however, we believe he will. We believe in miracles and Achmat. He has overcome lots of uphills before and we will not give up on him. With the power of dua (prayer) anything is possible. It is sad to see him in this condition, but we are grateful that he is still alive,” she said. Achmat was discharged from Melomed Tokai Hospital earlier this year as there was nothing more doctors could do for him. “It’s been a big change and adjustment in all of our lives. We have to always be available and communicate. We have to work together and we all take turns to look after him. (We will) give (one another) a break to rest and go out. “What we as a family learnt from this experience is that life is short and anything can happen. We should care for and love each other and to not be afraid to tell someone that you love them. You are never alone as there is still kindness in this world. “We would just like to thank everyone that has helped, sent kind words, did some form of sponsorship, donated and came to visit and pray for Achmat. We as the Hassiem family will be forever grateful,” she added. His girlfriend, Taryn Ganger, said: “The doctors didn’t think he’d make it this far so I’m in awe of him and amazed at his strength in surviving this and all his body has been through.  “On the other hand it’s also heartbreaking not seeing him be bubbly, loud and out there as he once was. He liked to have fun and this can’t be any sort of fun for him. He truly lives in the moment and makes it as dramatic or fun as he possibly can,” she said. Weekend Argus