Young Muizenberg surfer Amina Sayed is stoked with her new surfboard she won in the Catch Your Wave competition recently. Nexgen, a Muizenberg surfing school ran the competition in collaboration with Starbucks SA. To enter the competition, entrants had to spend a minimum of R200 at Starbucks in Muizenberg and enter their receipt and contact details. A winner was chosen from the entry box in a lucky draw. The 14-year-old surfing enthusiast entered the competition and is the proud recipient of a Starbucks branded surfboard, along with five surfing lessons from Nexgen Surf School. Sayed said her dream became a reality when she won the prize. “This competition was the perfect opportunity to make my dream come true,” she said. “Having my own surfboard is something that I have wanted for a few years. When I saw the competition, I knew I had to enter,” she added. Sayed was eight-years old when she had her first surfing experience at Muizenberg Beach. She added: “When they started the draw I stood close by, hoping and praying that my name would be called.” To claim the prize, the recipient had to be present on the day of the draw. As luck would have it, the first and second names drawn were not present and Sayed’s name was called third. “I was silently praying that it would be me. I could hardly believe my ears when my mom’s name was called. She nudged me forward and I was over the moon,” she said. She added: “I am still so excited, it all feels very surreal.” “I can’t wait for my lessons with my new surfboard.” Owner of Nexgen Surf, Yani Trout, said their surfing school was about serving communities. “We were hoping that someone who needed it would win. We had the draw, I looked over and saw this young girl smiling from ear to ear, kind of shy to step forward to claim her winnings,” he said. “When she did, I became so emotional thinking that all of this will be changing this young girl’s life forever,” he added. “We never had the financial capacity to do what we’ve wanted, until now. But thanks to Starbucks we can."