Cape Town - Childhood trauma, like being abused, abandoned, neglected and left to take care of ourselves, has been  strongly linked with borderline personality disorder (BPD).This is according to mental health experts. BPD is a mental health condition that affects our thoughts, feelings, actions, and perceptions of ourselves and others.  This often results in unstable moods, behaviours and relationships. BPD Awareness Month is celebrated in May. Clinical psychologist Dessy Tzoneva said the term “personality disorder” has a harsh ring to it and there’s quite a lot of stigma surrounding BPD. “For anyone feeling ashamed or worried about relating to the symptoms of the condition or about being diagnosed with it, personality disorders are often the natural result of a traumatic childhood where we had to adapt in certain ways in order to survive. “It would be so unfair to you to live the rest of your life as if there’s something wrong with you. By finding an understanding, compassionate space for you to explore your inner world, you can tend to the pain you’ve lived through and often things begin to shift naturally within you. There’s no shame in reaching out for help. What a brave thing to do. “Recent research into the epidemiology of borderline personality has shown that it affects 0.7% - 2.7% of the general adult population,” she said. Psychiatrist Kobus Roux said it was very important to treat personality disorders. “If it is properly treated early in adulthood with psychotherapy it may change the course of the illness. The impulsivity and emotional outbursts may be treated with pharmacotherapy.  “The differential diagnoses for BPD includes bipolar mood disorder and ADHD, which is also characterised by mood dysregulation and impulsivity. However, these disorders respond better to pharmacotherapy. Some people have a combination of psychiatric disorders and personality disorders. “People with BPD struggle to self-regulate and are often dependent on an external locus of control. They are often involved in codependent relationships and fear rejection. They may benefit from a loving structured environment, something which was mostly absent in their early childhood.  “It is very difficult to treat patients with personality disorders because of a high incidence of manipulation, resistance to change and poor insight. Because of the childhood traumas they struggle to trust other people, including the therapist. “Mental illness is highly stigmatised in our modern society, but it is treatable conditions and many tragic outcomes (such as suicide which are) preventable. This is why people with mental illness should speak out and seek professional help,” he said.  South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) operations director Cassey Chambers said: “With BPD, it is often very difficult for patients to get the right treatment, correct diagnosis and often they contact us when they have a long history of trying to get help. “Many have been pushed from pillar to post by different people not being able to help them. There are many family members and loved ones who call in looking for information, who to speak to and looking for ways in which they can help and support their loved ones. “It can be challenging to get access to treatment, the right diagnosis and gain the appropriate type of support because of the stigma and misinformation surrounding BPD. “There is generally a lot of fear around being diagnosed with BPD and we do get calls from people who have been diagnosed and are trying to navigate treatment and support,” she said. Weekend Argus