Cape Town - Through sheer determination, Char Carrie, who plays Angie Jantjies in ‘Suidooster’ wants to feel valued, as this was not the case for her as a child.  Jantjies is a spontaneous young hairdresser, with a bubbly personality and has her eye on the much-loved Wade Daniels (Dean Smith).  She is ready for new challenges, for the next chapter in her life and quickly creeps into everyone’s heart.  Jantjies grew up in difficult circumstances, where money was scarce, but worked hard to be where she is today. Carrie said her dialogue is super funny. “She says the funniest things, her confidence is through the roof.  “At first it was extremely intimidating to act alongside experienced actors.  “I did not want to embarrass myself in front of them or seem like an amateur.  “However, everyone is so kind and welcoming.  “I’ve received some tips and advice from many of them. “Teamwork really does make the dream work.  “Everyone’s role in the whole production is extremely important. “From the actors, to the writers, to make-up and  to wardrobe.  “It’s amazing to watch how everyone works together, appreciates and respects each other’s talents.  “The whole production is really like a family,” she said. Carrie, who has her bachelor of arts in professional acting for camera, has always been fascinated by storytelling. “The thought of me being part of a story that in some way may evoke any sort of emotion in anybody is magical.  “I find getting your word out as an individual who knows what it’s like to feel anxious, alone, nervous or scared (is) really important. “I feel that through acting, my voice has the potential to be heard throughout countless communities.  “I look at it as a stepping stone through which I can reach even greater audiences, and one day, through acting, I hope to realise my dream of creating my own stories and sharing it with the world.  “Through acting, I want to tell not only my story, but the stories of those who aren’t able to tell it themselves. “The world as of recent has been very negative, and it’s difficult not to be affected by it. There were many times I found myself questioning my career choice, I wasn’t sure if I would make it or if I wasn’t good enough. “But I knew that attitude would bring me nowhere.  “There were very hard times, but I had to keep telling myself that It’s going to be okay and my hard work will pay off.  “If I did not, I probably would have given up, forgotten about acting and would have never gotten to play Angie,” she said. Her message to upcoming actors: “When you do something you love, you’re happy.  “Whenever I wasn’t doing anything film or acting related I was miserable, and that was not  good for my mental health.  “But whenever I was in the industry from being an extra, writing a play with someone, shooting short films with friends, I was at my happiest and healthiest.  “Life is short and we all have a limited time.  “I feel that we should spend that time doing what we love.” Smith said: “Viewers are going to fall in love with Angie’s character and they will definitely root for this couple’s relationship to succeed as Wade and Angie appear to be a good match.  “However, like with all relationships, especially soapie couples, they will face a challenge or two. “It is such a joy to act opposite Angie and explore Wade’s next chapter in ‘Suidooster’.  “She brings a vibrant energy to the set and it is wonderful to see her grow as an actor,” he said. Weekend Argus