Cape Town - Spotted harlequins, boa constrictors and porcupines are among the animals being rescued daily in the strangest circumstances in Cape Town. Some quirky moments were also experienced, such as a terrapin that was found swimming in a residential pool, to a scary situation where a nest of sparrow fledglings, known as mossies, had blown off a roof in Mitchells Plain. Allan Perrins of the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa shared some of these unusual, scary, and sometimes sad moments. “The spotted harlequin snake and legless skink were surrendered to us as unwanted pets from a youngster from Hanover Park and the red-tail boa constrictor was admitted for treatment. He was diagnosed with cancer and much to the disappointment of his young female owner, humanely euthanised.” Perrins said some moments have left them in tears and others amazed at nature’s beauty, such as when a terrapin was found swimming in a pool. “The terrapin was rescued from a residential backyard where he was spotted swimming in the resident’s pool. He was released back into the wild.” In another situation, a family of mossies were lucky to survive after they were rescued when their nest blew off a rooftop. There was also a wounded duck that had been in an accident. “The mossies were found in their nest that had blown from a roof of a home in Mitchells Plain. They were transferred to a special avian rehabilitator who successfully raised and released them,” Perrins explained. “The injured duck is a Dutch Quacker. She was involved in a motor vehicle accident on the N2. She was treated and re-homed (to a traffic cop) and named Sally.” Other rescued animals included a rabbit, owl fledglings and a piglet. “The rabbit suffered a broken leg that needed pinning. “The owl fledglings were found blown from their nest and were admitted to our care by their finder. Both were released back into the wild. “The piglet was found on the N7. Allegedly it fell off the back of an overloaded bakkie. It was re-homed to Dunstone Wine Estate in Wellington.” The SPCA said they have been determined to create awareness of wildlife and snares being used. This comes after a juvenile female baboon was rescued and cut free from a wire snare earlier this year. Jaco Pieterse, of the Cape of Good Hope SPCA, said they had experienced several incidents this year where wildlife were rescued and where animals were released back into the wild or taken to the Cape Conservation. A farm manager driving along a road in Sir Lowry’s Village noticed a porcupine in distress, realised it had been caught in a snare and immediately contacted the SPCA. The SPCA said the animal was attended to at the scene and had lost a number of quills. “The Wildlife Department was dispatched and on arrival it was immediately clear that the animal was snared around the waist. The porcupine had lost a lot of her quills in the initial struggle to get free. She even managed to snap the tree stem which the wire snare was tied to. “Getting her free required very careful handling to avoid being speared by quills. Once cut free, the porcupine was transported to the Cape of Good Hope SPCA hospital in Grassy Park for treatment.” In another incident, a male caracal was brought to a vet after being hit by a car in Newlands. A passing motorist stopped to help and the SPCA was called in to assist. Cape of Good Hope SPCA wildlife officer Jon Friedman was dispatched. “The cat had been placed in a cage, on a drip and was awake but still quite sedated when I arrived to collect it.” X-rays confirmed the cat had sustained mild injuries and no fractures and he was placed on a drip and assessed. “CapeNature was notified of the incident and provided guidance as to where the animal should best be re-released according to their data triangulated to where the animal was originally found,” the SPCA said. “The male caracal was released back into the wild on Thursday, May 5.” A young spotted genet cat was also saved and released back into the wild. Friedman said: “Being able to release an injured wild animal back into its natural environment, healed and healthy, is a special kind of joy the team loves most.” Weekend Argus