The Plant Powered Show taking place at the CTICC this weekend aims to promote the power of eating a plant-based diet. Leading chefs, masterclasses and a programme filled with renowned speakers will keep guest informed From Friday to Sunday.  Attendees can expect to gain lots of knowledge about plant power in food from the likes of Jenny Morris, Andriette de la Harpe from Masterchef SA and many more. The Giggling Gourmet, chef Jenny Morris said she was looking forward to having lots of fun this weekend. “We’re going to have lots of laughs and delicious food. We’re going to show people how fabulous going vegetarian can be,” she said. Although Morris isn’t vegetarian, she said most of her diet is plant-based and that it’s been that way her whole life. The message that she wants to convey to everyone this weekend is that the base of a vegetarian diet is to include protein-rich elements in your dishes. “Flavour is an important element,” she said. Morris said being able to cook for and with people again after the last two years of lockdown, fills her heart with absolute joy. “I feel overwhelmed that we are back in business. We can share our knowledge and have fun with the people who follow us,” she said. Her advice to anyone considering moving to a plant-based diet is to take it one step at a time. “It’s not as expensive as you think. As long as you have ginger, garlic and chilli, you’re sorted,” she said. The Plant Powered Show’s Saturday programme includes award-winning chef Zola Nene, Masterchef SA alumni Andriëtte de la Harpe and Tarryn de Kock and many more. The first show of the day is with Jenny Morris at 10am and the final show is at 6:30pm, a cocktail masterclass with Kurt Schlechter. The Sunday programme begins at 10am and ends with the ‘Great Big Food Forwards SA cook-off’ at 4pm. A marketplace with more than 140 stands will display the best and latest plant-powered products available in South Africa. Tickets cost R250 for adults and R200 for students and seniors over 60. Masterclass tickets cost R145 which is an added cost to the admission ticket on the day. Tickets for the show are available from Quicket and can also be purchased at the door. Weekend Argus