MORE than 80 days after business mogul Ismail Rajah, 69, was snatched from outside his company’s offices in Parow, his  family has broken their silence, saying they remain hopeful that he is still alive. Raziek Rajah, in an interview with Weekend Argus yesterday, said his father was “a man of integrity and we miss him and wish that he can just come home”. “He worked his way up during apartheid, so he is strong and will get through this,” he said. Raziek added that Rajah always looked out for his family and staff, and helped the poor through community feeding schemes. “He stood for what is right and is loved by us all,” he said. Rajah, who was dramatically kidnapped by armed men in March, is the founder of the Cape Town construction firm, Good Hope Construction (GHC) which employs more than 600 direct and 2500 indirect employees. The construction company and the City of Cape Town are currently in a tug of war over a tender. GHC filed a court application last week in an attempt to overturn the City’s decision in what it described as the “illegal” cancellation of its contracts. The issue surrounding the court case goes back to May 2019 when the City advertised a tender for the repair, maintenance and upgrade of rental stock staircases across the Cape Flats. Cape Argus reported this week that in its affidavit, GHC said the company complied with all the tender requirements and submitted its tender documents to the City by the closing date of June 18, 2019. In February 2020, the council adopted a resolution approving it, subject to an appeal being lodged against the award within 21 days, in accordance with the rules of the Local Government Municipal Systems Act. However, in March 2020, GHC was informed by the City of an appeal against the tender and in July 2020 the tender was cancelled. The family said in a statement the kidnapping and the trauma had taken a toll on the family. The statement said Rajah had been a pillar of strength for the family and many others because he had the community at heart. “From the days that he got on to a train with a wheelbarrow with three friends in 1976, he went on to building a business based on honesty and integrity.” This is not the only setback the family have to face. “In the midst of this kidnapping nightmare, we have had to also deal with alleged industrial espionage (the City tender) which has impacted the company that Rajah started in 1976,” said the family statement. “The financial losses are something that we can always (deal with) in time, but having our father in captivity is far too much to bear.” The family said it had hindered the negotiations, too. Raziek would not be drawn on a ransom demand because he did not want to anger the kidnappers.  “This has gravely impacted our negotiation ability for his return, but in God we trust.” Raziek, who is also the director of the company, said as a family they don’t feel safe. “We are not safe in this beautiful country and if the SAPS does not find a way to stop this scourge, it’s only going to get worse. We thank everyone that has offered us comfort and prayers in these trying times and ask you to continue praying for all victims, including my fathers who are in captivity, for their safe return back to their loved ones,” he said. Raziek confirmed that the business is under business rescue and that they had instituted civil action against the City. “The company that my father started 46 years ago is in business rescue as a result of this nightmare (with the City) that we found ourselves in because of fraud and corruption.  “The kidnappers thought we got money and suddenly this negotiation fell apart,” he said. “We won a tender that has been cancelled by the City. “We have also asked the police to investigate whether there is a criminal element related to the tender,” Raziek said. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said he could not comment on whether the kidnapping was related to the tender dispute. Police spokesperson Sergeant Wesley Twigg said the matter was still under investigation.